Episode: 3346
Title: HPR3346: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3346/hpr3346.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:25:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3346 for Mundi, the 31st of May 2021.
To its show is entitled, HPR 2020-2021 New Year's Eve, Show Episode 3.
It is hosted by Honki Magoo and is about 175 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
FFMPEG makes it quite easy to record a stream actually.
FFMPEG.SPACE.I, HGTPHackerPublicRadio.org for such live space,
.c, copy and then the file name.
So, do I open a bug for a next cloud that I can set the time and date?
Collins, please.
So, next cloud has a calendar application.
And if you set, if you want to share your days and time and date,
it gives you 1 to 12 as the options for hours and the AM and PM.
But that just is a format that is not used here in the Netherlands.
We use military time for selecting calendar dates.
So, do I open a bug on that and or not?
That is the question.
Is this the preview of the show you're going to make how to bypass the locale?
I'm not going to make that show.
I see.
I have been using the Danish English for a while on the locals.
And then everything comes out correctly.
But I don't know if that's going to work.
When you're operating system updates, the locals and then blasts that out of the way.
So, if all the applications on the Linux has decided that the only way is to use the only way
to do preferences is to use locals.
And that you are only 20, whatever, 100 different variants on what you're allowed to do.
If that's what they're saying, then we should be able to be allowed to modify custom locals
without them being blown away.
And they should be responded by the applications as well.
I seem to be using the English us.utf8 product in your dates messed up.
So, you want to have the dates at the 2020-
month-day.
I think the problem is I don't know the date on what.
You have that set as your full locale.
That's fine.
That's fine.
Yeah, so I basically tried to use everything as much in the terminal as possible.
So, in the end, if you want to turn it on, it's like date now.
Hi, I get Thursday, December 31st, which makes no sense.
You're right.
Yeah.
And what I want to get is 2020-12-31T-15-31.
So, I personally want ISO-8611 because it's the only same date format,
human readable date format.
But it affects other things like, for example, if you pick that locale,
now your currency symbol is defined as a dollar.
I'm not the, I don't know where you're a crooner or a euro.
Yeah, it's crooner.
Yeah.
Which is fine because it's not a symbol in itself.
It's the SEK.
Yeah, in my case, it would be the euro symbol.
So, but then I always use ISO-86, can I always use EUR?
No, because it's automatically populated by certain applications.
I'll ask.
And I would just like to wish the person who received my
pine phone somewhere in the UK, Birmingham, all the best for the new year.
Thanks.
Hope you're enjoying it.
I'm not having too much luck with buying stuff from Pine64.
Why?
Did it go to the wrong address?
Yep, it ended up with the one that you don't know why.
And the sales, they, I opened a ticket and they said,
yeah, but it's been delivered.
It's, yeah, but it's been delivered to the wrong country,
your wrong address.
Okay, then contact some other people, you know,
the sales team and I contacted them and nobody ever got back to me.
So, there's that.
I bet there's that.
Does that mean that someone actually picked it up?
Oh, presumably somebody has it, because I don't.
That is hilarious.
Yeah, Google Drive have updated their security, effective June 2021.
If you're inactive for two years, that's 24 months in Gmail, drive for photos,
we may delete your contents in which you're inactive.
If you exceed your storage number for two years,
we may delete the contents across Gmail, drive, and photos.
That's reassuring.
I think, since remember there was unlimited forever promises met there,
or maybe I mistook that.
Well, initially it seemed like it was going to be that way,
with email ever expanding, but turns out that,
when it comes to photos, people can take as many as they want,
or actually as many as they can.
That's a fine looking breakfast, Claudio.
Is he left-handed or is the camera switched?
The fork is on the right-hand side, and the knife is on the left-hand side.
Also pointed to the left-hand side, which is weird.
No, it's not flipped, otherwise the text on the, what is that butter?
Would be flipped.
Why do you eat that way, Claudio? Why?
I guess he's too busy chewing his breakfast.
So, let's see what the text says.
Okay, the kitchen table with a tub of butter spread at the top left,
a butter knife below it, and a techno plate of scrambled eggs who had spinach,
and two whole wheat toast slices fork to the right of the plate,
and my black mug of coffee with milk and honey at the top right with a spoon submerged.
That is some accessibility marking there.
I have to, I have to give it to Claudio.
Well done.
On the butter knife, we're just uncivilized people that don't recognize the butter knife.
This is from Claudio's two-way streams here on the mastodon.
A mastodon?
Is it a butter knife?
Well, he says it on the text.
Looks too big to be a butter knife.
I mean, it might be the knife he uses for butter, but here butter knives are made of wood.
That's true, yes.
Hello?
What website are you referring to?
A mastodon feed.
You're coming in pretty low, wishy-k-wisher.
How's that?
Oh, she's not.
Much better.
That's much better.
So, can't fail.
I have a few questions for you.
All right, bye.
Do you have to do that?
You are the admin for this mumble server.
Is that correct?
That is correct, yes.
Well, I'm paying for just.
So why is it still running about 2, 16,
104?
Because it's from a service called, let me check, Voice Commander Center.
And I've opened them a ticket and they said they'll look into it,
but 1604 is a supported operating system.
So there you go.
Right, I understand that, but it's causing some minor issues for people connecting
to the older server with newer mumble client.
Yep.
And as this is a hosted service,
zero I can do about it, other than open a ticket.
So you can't do a OS upgrade.
No, it's a hosted service.
They run, so you go to voicecommandcenter.com
and I'll paste it into the etherpad.
I just curious as to why it was still on 1604 and an older mumble server.
Because they run, that's what they put on that service.
It's a hosted service by them and that's it.
That's the version they're running.
So happy New Year's Eve hacker public radio.
Happy New Year's Eve nightwise.
Hey guys.
My nightwise.
Hey again.
Well, nightwise.
Hi guys.
Turn on first to talk, please.
Yes.
So I have a technical support, instant number 22762 there.
We're seeing, I said we've seen errors on some mumble clients running
under Ubuntu 2004 versions, have connection errors.
It's possible that you can upgrade to a new server version.
They replied saying we are researching this request.
Provided we don't have any issues.
We should be able to upgrade the mumble server soon.
So is, who's paying for this hosted service?
I am.
I wasn't all the time, but then who used to pay for it?
Name skates me.
Asked if anybody was still using it.
Hacker public radio war and we then I then took it over.
So does HBR have any options to add their own local server to host a mumble?
No, it's a hosting service.
This is what they do.
They have a web page in front of servers.
You don't get any access to anything.
Well, it's what I'm saying.
You can host your own mumble server at home if you want it.
Yeah, I could do yeah, but I don't want it because I'm already doing enough stuff.
So what I wanted to do was pay for this service.
I didn't mind paying for this because it was on for this is a repeat of the another discussion
we had earlier.
So people who were already listening to this on the podcast can fast forward.
But only I went through the when I do apologize for not being able to remember who it was
that was paying for this for years and years and years.
When they handed it over to me, there was a list of other podcasters using this.
So for example, the Boston Browns, I have no idea, ledger, the cast,
null, tech show, null craft and review and the Python experiment.
I googled them, Dr. Goldem, internet archive them, can't find any reference to them at all.
Then the techie geek, Duke Maninoff, Geekwood guns, Linux basics, Linux Berg,
open source musician, pub brewers and scanner drum.
All appear to have pub fitted and the remaining shows that are active,
either using their own server or using this as a backup.
So then I personally don't feel any obligation to continue paying this service to these
people voice commander because we don't have access to the server, we don't have access to get
it upgraded. I would much prefer to give that money as a donation to Delwin or to somebody
or to some open source project that Delwin wishes me to give it to.
Then pay somebody else and we move over to Delwin server.
Because I could run it from here from home, I couldn't put it on the Raspberry Pi,
but then I'm administrating that and I have enough to be doing because just this last week,
we had a hard disk, a power outage here in the house which fried one of my spinning hard disks
and ended up losing some shows, thankfully we were able to get them back.
But it just highlights is the fact that I don't want to be, I'm enough to be doing it,
I don't need that on top of everything else, particularly when somebody else is kind enough
to have a server to run this up. Make sense or not? Yes and no. I would think you could
send out a mass email to the list and ask for somebody to contribute to run that. It's not about
the money. I understand that. I mean, it's just the keeping it up to date and keeping things
working. Okay, the HPR server is on this voice commander service. Can you go to that page?
Just click on that link and you'll see what I mean. It's a hosted service, it's like Gmail,
it's like saying Google please update your own app server because it's out of date.
There is no control. It's a hosted service. That's it. I don't have access to the server.
Where do you post the link into the etherbed? Of course. I can send you privately the login
information, no problem. I don't need it. I'll look at that link. Just asking why you couldn't
do your own updates and stuff because I can't. Yes, I understand why now, but why you want to keep
the service if you can't maintain it? Well, the reason for that was because there are so many
people using the service or so I thought. Only when this discussion came up on the mail list,
did I go through the list and check and see how many are active. There are still some active
tools on there. Well, then you just make your switch and tell them the new server.
Yeah, exactly, but we need to first of all make sure nobody is actually using this because I
took it over and good fit that I would pay for if people in the community are using this,
but it seems to be that people are either using their own servers or they're using
delegates because he seems happy enough with that. And he has a nice setup actually over there.
The fact that you can go into the room and test your thing and everything, that's pretty cool.
Well, there's your other option. Yeah, he's already set up a room, but for the new years,
he's already set up a room for Hacker Public Radio, but for the new year show, I don't know,
we might set up a mumble thing here locally. If it's a question I haven't asked him yet,
or can 200 people come and challenge your internet service as a thing, but for the community
news and that sort of thing, what we use it for, his one will be more than sufficient.
So we're not started. We haven't started the
commercial yet. Oh, okay, sorry. This is just a
don't think it's a conversation and everything you're ready to do in Australia, mega meta.
Everyone, can you hear me? We can. We can speak to us from beyond. Hey, everyone's Claudio,
how you doing? Happy New Year. I was in Australia. Claudio. Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
Still waiting for that time to roll around, but I'm going to be happy saying about 2020.
I know it's been a crazy year, but I do have a lot of positive things to be thankful for this year,
so you know, I'm going to focus on that and not on the negative.
Excellent. List them all there. Number one. It's 2021.
All right, I'll be right back. Give me a second.
No worries. When it comes down to being grateful, I call this year the year of the digital
renaissance, the golden age. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's not possible to run your business from home.
Yes. Oh, God. I have been. It's been crazy. This is the first year that I have gathered 15 years
of podcasting and live streaming skills and actually made a business out of it. It's crazy.
Yeah. Very good. God, my mother using WhatsApp videos like video call her. She won't answer the phone
now. She wants to see it. It's amazing. 87,000,000. What age is she? Is she something?
Yeah, we had that with my wife's grand a couple of years ago. When she went to the retirement home,
she was the first one that came in and asked, what's the Wi-Fi password? And the staff looked
at her and knew it like what? Well, I'm an IT professional and my sister-in-law works at an
IT provider. We actually sat the manager of the retirement home down in his office and we said,
okay, this is how we're going to do it. We are going to bring the 21st century to your retirement
and yeah, it worked. Brilliant. Brilliant. Brilliant. No, it's actually quite good because
although in order to contact her, I first need to ring her. Then she needs to not pick it up.
Then she needs to ring me. Then I need to pick it up. Then I need to tell her which
flew button to swipe up. So there's a whole five minute preamble thing that works. But still,
it is amazing. I've made some iOS shortcuts for my niece and my in-laws and this is they
can FaceTime each other in just one button. Bam, directly. Apple shortcuts for that way. Yeah,
very convenient. So yes. Speaking of places, Mastodon. I'm also looking for
Mastodon service that would take as a replacement for Twitter. That would take HPR. Again,
too much to do. Don't want to be maintaining something. Is there a Mastodon service out there
that would be a good fit for Hacker Public Radio and that means an automated bot that would post
a small tweezer or two every work every day during the week. Work week day. Work week day.
That's the word. Work day? Yeah. Okay. That'll do work day. Yes.
Thoughts or ideas. You people listen along at home. What's the issue with Mastodon now?
We don't have an account. I have an account on SDF that I use myself and I want to be able to
I pull. We have a script that posts the RSS feed to Twitter every day. I've been doing that since
like HPR started more or less. And it seems that we should really be posting into the Fediverse
as well because hey, that's where our audience lives mostly. So rather than have to set up
our own Fediverse server, Mastodon server or whatever server and become an expert at that,
I just want to piggyback on somebody else's, you know, get an account on somebody else's
service, but quite a lot of them don't allow automated bots to come in. They want community
engagement and stuff like that. But in our case, it is very low, low amount of traffic and it's
mostly posts are mostly automated unless there's something like the HPR New Year show where I post.
Well, I do monitor it. And if there is anybody who comments about HPR, I will reply directly
as HPR, but yeah, basically what is is there a service out there that we can we can join
without releasing the terms. Have you tried talking to one of the admin? Yep. So this is
this list called joinmastodon.org communities.tech. I'll paste the link into the show notes.
Etherpad, one second. Welcome Northern turtries of Australia, Darwin, Alasprings and Uluru.
Just posted in there joinmastodon.org communities for such tech went through a few of them. And
two of them that have contacted would be normally happy with the sort of content, but they don't
allow bots, so they don't want us to join. And then the remainder didn't get back to me.
Now, what if they just didn't know that it was a bot and it could be just regular person
posting the shows on a daily basis? That would reflect very badly on us, wouldn't it?
Fair enough. No, I don't want to, I don't want to violate somebody's terms and conditions.
I imagine though that if I was, there are people out there who have a no bot policy,
but will be okay with that. But on the other hand, if they're okay with that, then somebody
else says no bot. Somebody else would have a bot that they would think, yeah, but it's not
you less hacker public radio. Why don't you let us? Have you tried talking to the
not the tilde guys? The SDF guys? People?
That's an interesting one. On my account or on another account?
On another account, I would guess. Just asking them if it's okay to just have a bot running on
their master don't think? I think it would be okay. There are four kinds of experimentation if I'm
not mistaken. Reading their terms of service? That would be, I'll be fairly obvious if they
have been looking for a service and the service that would actually allow us as the service I'm
actually using. Yeah, I ended up just using method on dot social because I'm, you know, obvious
like that. Did someone say master on? Yes, did you? Did you miss the conversation? No, I was listening
in from my phone the meantime. Yeah, looking for a home for the HQ or bot so that we can kind of
tweet out. We have a Twitter feed that's been running for years and yeah, it makes sense to me,
but that should go to some master on service somewhere or the Fediverse at least.
Is it, you only have the Twitter one? Yeah, well, I mean, it's an RSS feed. I can send anything
everywhere, so it's not, that's not the issue. Oh, okay. Gotcha. It's the, I don't want to violate
some of these terms of service, I think. Archer 72 says, Dev.2 bot wiki in instructions to
master on bots. Have a base that into this. If I'm not mistaken, I think there's a bots.space
instance. So maybe you can set something up there. Yeah, that's there bots in that space.
Some paste a link, please. It's in the link that Archer sent to 72 sent. Thank you, add
to the eithbot. There follows truncate silence. So just a little update. We've got 24 listeners on
the audio stream server right now. Sorry, no, it's not bad for a Friday afternoon. What is it?
For a start, it's Thursday afternoon. So the one I think it's Friday the whole time.
I don't think I've ever seen 24 mass listeners on on this stream since I've been doing it.
We've been behind cameras and head and underneath headphones for the better part of the year,
so we're kind of used to it right now. I'm talking about this show in the years past. I've just
the only time I've run the audio stream. And this is the most listeners I've seen on three or
four years of using it. Okay, yeah. Delayed consumption of content. Well, that's what we'd be
doing. Everyone else's in lockdowns. Showing HPR. Well, maybe it's showing the connection issues.
Or it's just people listening to the stream having connection issues. No, no, I'm saying having
mumble connection issues. So they're using the stream just to listen. Yeah, and that's what I'm
asking. Are you having people listening to the stream? Are you listening to the stream?
Because you're having mumble issues. You can reply by sending an email to admin at hackerpublicradio.org
or by going to mastodon and how do you send a message to mastodon?
Yes, I can can underscore fallen at mastodon.stf.org.
I do want to comment on that one. I want to pick in on a discussion that they had a couple of months
ago on the Ubuntu UK podcast where they were talking about the fact that I think it was the EFF
that was talking about it that's a poor locked platforms like for example Discord and stuff
as being non-free. Yet they did say that if they wanted to reach a larger base and larger public
and especially the next generation of developers, they needed to start using said platforms in order
to reach their audience. And I would like to throw up the blasphemous question. Why do we
as an HBR community still stick to the mostly not free and open yet hugely niche platforms that
we're using right now? Just a question. Well, we've been posting to Twitter since
before Twitter was known to be on the horizon. So there's nothing to niche about that. What we're
suggesting is that we're posting to mastodon as well where our community is. Okay. What would we
have as an audience or what would our reach be if we were to do this on let's say something
like a discord server instead of IRC in mumble? Well, I would ask, would we not then use something
like Jitsi meat that will be open, audited, secure, commercial, supported? And extremely niche.
It was ranked by the consummate Abond as the best video conferencing app. So it's not that niche.
Everything is niche. Google was niche at one stage. I had a Google t-shirt people ask me,
hey, who? What's that? Yeah. So. Yeah. Go ahead. In your opinion, we're in the reach. We would
reach with this. We would reach a wider audience if we spread out to something like this as opposed
to using mumble. From a marketing, I'm talking marketing-wise, not developer-wise. From a marketing
point, it's not about what you as an entrepreneur want. It's actually what your client wants. And
it's all about being what your client is. You can have your client come to you, but it will take
a lot more effort for the client to do so and your reach will be smaller. It takes less energy
to go to your client where the clients are. Client to your client. Let's exercise.
Our client would be potential listeners who we can inspire with our content.
Okay. Let me summarize. Because we... Well, for a start, I'm on the record as disagreeing with
that in a way. The approach to me is that our target audience is to get wholesome, not listeners.
However, there is an argument that you need the listeners in order to get the wholesome. Not
100% sure about that. However, HPR this new year's show is something different. It's a meeting
of hackers. The technology that was available when this started was mumble. These other technologies
that you talk about didn't exist. Okay. So do we stay... Do we keep using these technologies because
they were there when we started? Because we know them or because they are the best platforms
to do so. Because if the goal of the organization is to get new hosts and through getting new hosts,
we do need more listeners because you become a listener first and then a host. So we continually
need to find new listeners. It's our sales funnel as it was. But now by focusing on just
getting hosts, we end up talking to each other in ever smaller circles where we need to have...
We need to burn much more energy to find new hosts because we're using niche channels
than opposed to go sit in the digital high street using a non-free application but reaching
a much larger audience and more potential hosts. Yeah, but the opposite side of that is when
everybody else runs you walk. The fundamentally disagree with what you're saying because then
your signal gets lost in the... Your signal gets lost in the crowd and then you're chasing the
algorithm. You see it on YouTube, people who are monetizing. YouTube changes their policy.
Now we need long-form videos. We need short-form videos. We're changing this. You can't say that.
Restrictions come in. Absolutely. I completely agree.
Our proprietary software is required and the target audience here are not people who consume
their people who create. Where are those people likely to be? They're likely to be on the edge
on the fringe. We make a community for those people and we bring them in. But HPR has always had a
policy where we will use while the majority of people have strongly biased to free open source
tools. We are not... That is not what the network is about and we will use other services if they're
deemed to be appropriate. However, the operating systems that a lot of our community use
don't support these proprietary platforms because they haven't released the code on those
proprietary platforms. Take for example the Raspberry Pi. I can't watch the national broadcaster
despite paying taxes for the service because I've got an ARM processor and not an Intel processor
so the DRM won't work in that. So these are the issues that you're facing with. In theory what
you're saying is correct. Not 100% sure applies to HPR though. Yeah. I was... I mean I agree. I
love the fact that HPR is still on IRC and that we are finding out ways to do stuff with open
source. But the thing that we do need to think about perhaps I'm just throwing it out there.
We're also on Master DOM. We're also on Discord. We're also on Telegram. We're also on Twitter.
We're also on Facebook. We're also on Google Play and we're on 100 or more other services that
have been disregarded. So what you're saying does some accents because we are on these services.
But where we pull people in from are from the fringe services. So what I'm saying here,
this discussion is about we're posting to Twitter. We don't get any feedback from Twitter. We don't
get any comments back in. We don't get any feedback on the shows from Twitter. We don't get any
new holds from Twitter. But there's a vast majority of people out there on Master DOM,
listening to Master DOM and the Fediverse. Those people, when I post about a HPR show,
it gets boosted. It gets promoted. It gets shared. Like last week when we were on Hacker News,
we got new people in who had never heard about us and they never heard about us because we
worked on the other services. They need your services.
Yeah, it's just a thought experiment that I would like to just throw out there because
for the last couple of years with my own company, I've helped a lot of smaller companies do
digital communications and bringing their brands and bringing their business out there.
And it's always been about what do you want to do? Where's your client? How do you reach them?
Where's your audience, your potential audience? And it was just a thought experiment that I
would like to throw out there and think about what do we actually want? I know that HPR is not
about thousands of listeners, yet we do need an audience to generate more hosts. And then the question
is, if we find hosts through the niche platforms, by all means, we should continue to
to put it out there on the niche platforms. It was just a little bit of a thought exercise
that I would like to do. Are we on the right channels? Are we using the right media to
get new content and new hosts? You know, I wonder if maybe I know a lot of people what they do
if they have an account on Twitter and they have an account on Fediverse, what they'll usually do
is that they'll use their Twitter as their main and then they'll send over to, they'll kind of,
I guess they use a re-blogging service or reposting service where it posts to various social media.
And then they kind of, as a secondary, they send it over to the Fediverse, the same posts that's on
Twitter, which kind of tends to not work well and people on the Fediverse kind of,
they don't look kindly to that because they're looking at it kind of like a second-class citizen.
But maybe what Hacker Public Radio could do is the offices do the reverse, use the Fediverse as
the primary method for sharing about episodes or about recording or about Hacker Public Radio
in general and then kind of re-blogging that over to Twitter. And you know, if there's anybody gets a
response, you know, anybody responds over there, fine, but now you're targeting the audience that
is really interested, those that are on the Fediverse. And if by chance you get anybody from Twitter,
great. I don't know if there's a way to do the opposite. Yeah, no problem, that's what I'm trying
to organize. And I think don't get me wrong. And that's why I completely, I personally have
opinions about free software and stuff. But that should not in any way stop HPR going beyond the
reaches. But there's only so much you can do in the day. And we definitely want to be pushing
HPR to other platforms. For example, we should be on Facebook video, we should be on YouTube,
we should be on Spotify and all the rest of those ones because they take our feed. But we should
definitely exposing to more people. When Claudia goes back to what you say there, we I see that
by putting mastodon as our main, our feedbot is coming from the general or SS feed anyway. So
whether we post to Twitter or whether we post to mastodon, it's going to be coming from the same
database. So I'm not sure if people will perceive that as this copying the Twitter feed or not.
What do you think? Okay, yeah, I see what you mean. No, no, I don't think they would. Yeah,
I kind of miss it because I was my sons were leaving to go to the gym. So I was just kind of
attending to them for a bit. No, no worries. But no, I don't think it would. I mean, if it's just an
RSS feed that's, you know, pushing out to everything, you know, I don't think anybody's going to
look on that any other in any other way because there's like, there's the hacker news has a bot
that post stuff that, you know, basically an RSS feed of the hacker news page. So, you know,
there wouldn't be any different than that I would imagine. Yeah, I totally agree about the
broadcasting. Please let us broadcast on as many channels as we can. I'm thinking more about the
interaction with the community where we might, aside from having a narrow niche funnel with a
high content, with a high success rate, you know, the people from the Fedverse that that
generally deliver the co-hosts also have, I don't know, a discord server or something. I don't
know if for there, I might have missed it, but perhaps for people who don't know us, who don't
know the community don't a generation who we're getting old guys doesn't know what IRC is.
Maybe that's the way they'll find us. We're not stuck in IRC, we happen to have an IRC,
I think so please, you know, I'm getting the feeling that all HBO is old and crusty because we
use tried and true technology as well as the latest bling stuff. Don't forget we are using the
latest bling stuff. It's just we're not picking up traction on the latest bling stuff. So if there are
people and feel free to volunteer yourself who wants to set up a discord server and wants to
maintain and manage that, I'm absolutely fine with that. I will join with myself, but it's not
something we need. HBO is a volunteer organization. If somebody has the expertise,
prepare it, post it to the mailing list. I can imagine there would be no objection to it and
here's the other word that sounds very ancient mailing list. I'm not trying to agitate people,
I'm just trying to... I think we are, I think you are. Yes, I am, but it's good. I mean,
it's good to think about it. If the answer is going to be no, we're fine, then it's fine,
but it's also nice to just pose the question once in a while. Okay, if you want to poke me with a
mistake, that's absolutely fine, because let's just take that off day here. Let's just assume we're
both agreeing that if, from the point of view of HBO, if there's any service that people want us
to be on, we can be on it, but you need to be to assist us with that and the general will come
that we have given down to the years as if you're going to be assistant HBO, you need to commit
to at least two years of doing that. And the reason for doing that is so that if ever you
podfade or get tired or whatever, there's enough time for the other volunteers to be able to pick
up the experience and to learn the code or whatever it is that you magic glue that you have put
together so that we can take over from you if ever you step away from the project. If you can't
commit two years to us, then it's kind of pointless in the long term project like this. So put
in that aside for a moment, walk over to you here and poke you back with a stick. The reason we use
IRC is an emailing list is that it's been around. Since this project has started, we have seen
Google, Google one, come and go, we've seen Google reader come and go, we've seen several
microservices that we're going to be the latest thing that we built and integrated with,
suddenly disappear after only five years of service. And we're continuing on 15 years later,
still going on. And the old reliable services continue to be there because it still works,
that they're old and reliable. One is this course more than an ad-lorified
accouli version of IRC. I don't really get it. I mean, I've been preaching this for a while
when it comes to please don't stop running your own blog. I mean, don't completely commit to the
Google's and the YouTube's and the Facebook's of this world because if they change the rules,
you're basically screwed. That's absolutely true. And I think that the self-hosted things that we do
have value and we should continue to do them just to give a counterweight to a popular culture
that right now just says, you know, I create a login and a password to whatever and I have it,
but I am completely dependent on some corporate goon who can decide whatever he wants tomorrow.
I mean, if I see businesses here, small businesses, if Google kicks them off tomorrow, they can,
or if Facebook kicks them out tomorrow, they can kind of close up shop when it comes to marketing.
So I completely agree on our self-hosted and tried and true traditional technologies.
I absolutely, they are still there and they still work and I completely agree,
but I just think it's fun to to, I don't know, poke the monkey from time to time and think about it
and have a discussion like this. I mean, I think it's very productive.
I would argue the point here that there's limited resources and that if people want to do something
and HPR, you need to step on volunteer and do. I will get the support from us.
Absolutely. And I think that aside, with that in mind, we also, we continue, we need to look
for new talent and new hosts and new insights.
Sorry, I just got distracted there by the kids to the miss.
No, no. I was just saying that I completely agree with the fact that because HPR requires so much
effort, I mean, there's a lot of energy that goes into it, we should put getting new hosts
and getting fresh blood into the community as a high standard, not to end up becoming grumpy old men,
who, who yelled, get off my lawn. That would be bad.
I don't know. I don't know. I mean, we have, let me have a look and see
how many new hosts we have this year.
John, call. Could you please turn on, push the top please.
I can't, how do I do it? Go into to configure your server settings.
Hang on. You create a shortcut for a key to turn on your mic.
And I've got to hold that if I'm going to speak.
Walkie-talkie style.
Yeah, my God. Maybe I'll get out of here.
No, no, no, stay. It's fun. It's walkie-talkie. You say it over when you're done.
Over. Over under.
That's it, whoopie.
Speaking of somebody, I forgot to welcome the new,
new year greetings to Japan.
And somebody would be you and six more in Tokyo,
Seoul, and Giant Bill. That was about six months ago.
Nine minutes, the next one.
Hi, John. Didn't see you there, by the way.
Hey, Ken. I was just trying to figure out how to make e-speak,
not tell me that I had unmuted or muted myself. I think I've got it now.
You don't have to mute yourself. You just turn on the push to talk option
and set up a shortcut key on your keyboard.
Yeah, I'm aware of that. However, the shortcut keys that seem to be available,
I've got repetitive strain injury problems.
And I don't want to keep having to push a key to do this.
So I'm just using my clicker to click on them,
because I have multiple ways to do user input here
if I'm clicking instead of using a keystroke.
Okay, I understand.
Cool. By the way, speaking of old technology, I've had some fun
the last couple of days, restoring a G4 Mac with classic LucasArts games.
That was also a nice exercise in patience.
Nice. Very, very nice.
What did you post that? I know I saw you post something on that.
And now I'm not on Facebook. I'm not on Twitter.
So it must have been somewhere else that I saw you post it.
I think I'd put something on our discord or something.
I'm not really sure.
But I've been playing around with it.
It's kind of like slow coffee post with espresso,
where you have to wait for the coffee to drip through
and kind of enjoy the moments.
It's the same thing. It's slow.
It's tedious, but there is so much software out there
that you can just download and install that has been
forgotten and abandoned.
That's great.
Yeah, I have to do something.
I have to at least with the time I have left.
I've had two weeks off since I work for the school system.
The students have winter break and so all the employees do as well.
And it's paid.
I was like, I'm going to do something with some of my old equipment.
But I kind of did.
I kind of did.
I have a PowerMakji 5 that I wanted to get working again
because it had an unsupported port of Debian,
but Debian said, and I had used it,
I would say maybe two years ago, before I moved,
and I was doing some music stuff on it.
And then I stopped using it because I just didn't have space to use it.
So it had been in storage for a while.
I brought it back maybe about a month ago.
I got it short updated.
It was, I mean, been two years behind on an unsupported port.
It was a bit of a mission to get it updated.
And then I think I kind of broke it.
But then, and I stopped after a while for maybe a few weeks
up until last week where I said, I'm going to get this thing working.
So I was able to update it.
It seems to be temperamental.
Some days a little boot to the gooey.
Some days won't boot to the gooey.
Other days that'll just give me command,
you know, the command line login, I don't know,
but it's it's working and it's updated.
So, but I do have, I do have my Quadro 650.
And I have a Motorola StarMax 4000,
which was one of the old PowerPC Mac loans
from the 90s, mid 90s, late 90s.
And I have actually installed BOS on that one.
So it's running the PowerPC version.
BOS professional five dot something.
I don't remember what it is, but very hard to find software for it.
That's for sure.
I went for, I think there's a site called MacintoshGarden.org
that gives you the all of the images of the software,
including the operating system.
So I did an original authentic reinstall of OS 9.
That works, that works great.
I also have a G5 lying around.
But I was thinking of putting Linux on it
because I have an older 2009 iMac lying around.
I yanked out the spinning disk put in an SSD, extra RAM.
It's now running Raspbian.
Fantastic device.
But I was thinking of indeed getting a G3, G4, G5 running with Linux.
But I don't think that the ports are supported anymore.
There's no longer a PPC supported version of Ubuntu or Debian, is there?
Well, Ubuntu, no.
But Debian there is, I'll find the link and I'll post it in the chat.
They have, it's based on SID.
So it's going to be, it's going to be a bit rough, things will break.
But you know, at least you'll be on the latest kernel.
And not everything works.
So like, I'm trying to get Firefox running.
And I don't know if it's just my Mac or what,
but every time I try to launch Firefox, it runs for a bit,
and then it crashes.
And then I can't run it anymore until I delete the config files for Firefox.
And then it just repeats the same thing.
So I'll, what I have installed is NetSurf and Links.
There's no Chromium.
So it's very, you know, it's very hit or miss with that.
What I do know is that the BSDs do support the PowerPC still,
the big Indian PowerPCs, because Debian does support PowerPC,
but the little Indian ones, so like the Power9 stuff,
the server kind of stuff.
Yeah, I was thinking, I think I can get my hands on an older G3 first-generation iMac.
And I'd be fine just running a command line interface.
That would be nice as well.
So basically, I don't know, put some music on there to turn it into an audio player.
I have the other G4 iMac.
I have in the studio where we broadcast the webinars.
It's basically in the background, in the decor.
Doing a slide show.
So they don't have to be, you know, cutting edge productive,
but just, you know, to have them do something, that would be nice.
I'd like to send out a notification to everybody.
To please post your show notes in the Etherpad site.
You know, I'm sorry, I've tried to do the push to talk thing.
And something is not applying properly.
I get it said, it says that the certain key that I've chosen
is enabled, but then when I get in here,
my lips just turn red without pushing the button.
So I don't know what I'm doing wrong here.
Look under the configure menu and make sure text to speech is not selected.
It's not, it is not selected under settings.
I go to shortcuts right, function push to talk.
I've chosen alt right and says it's fine, but it's not.
It's transmission set to push to talk.
Yep. Well, transmission, where's transmission?
Under the audio input.
Okay, hang on, hang on.
And make sure you have the advanced, advanced button selected down to bottom.
Okay, working now.
Thank you.
I need somebody, I had not checked the transmission push to talk,
but that's why it was not working right.
My apologies, I don't use mumble very often.
It's been two years probably since the last time I've used it.
It's not a problem.
It's just when you don't have that turned on,
sometimes it causes interference with other people while they're talking.
I am well aware of the issues.
I might chime in on the MACG4 topic.
I've got one over there and for a couple of years,
it has functioned as a beautiful case on the floor with all of the guts ripped out,
because I like the way it looks and I didn't want to just throw it away.
And so now it is a coffee table.
All right, it is beautiful with its guts ripped out.
I must say, there are still beautiful things.
I mean, I've even thought of getting one of those towers, the desktops,
yank and everything out, just throwing all of my raspberry pies in there
and then closing it up and putting a lead light in it and going like,
there, it's a computer, it's nice now.
That's pretty much what I actually had a raspberry pie in there for a while.
I had my Ethernet switch and it had a bunch of cables and a power supply,
like a power strip and I just jammed a bunch of stuff in there and then closed it up.
This is the desktop case.
You know, it's the tower thing with the kind of curved molded plastic sides
and the big apologo on the side.
I think I picked it up a good will for about 10 bucks years ago.
And used it as a computer for a little while, but then it just,
it didn't perform well enough and so I ripped everything out and just,
I like the case that Apple makes really nice looking cases.
So now it serves the purpose of holding my coffee while I'm reading.
I need to convince my wife that we need a coffee table that looks like a Mac,
maybe two of them and then just a plexiglass sheet in between and then, yeah, that would be nice.
The upside is I can, I go to the thrift store from time to time or to the local recycling center
and I do a heist because at the local recycling center you're not allowed to take anything home.
And I love just looking in the bins and seeing what's in there and I've bought,
I've brought, sometimes I bring more home than I take to the recycling center and my wife always
gets annoyed. But I have found the most beautiful things. I mean, it's amazing what people throw out.
Indeed, you know, I'm at a point in my life and my career where I make a decent salary but I still
haunt the thrift stores just because of, you know, I don't see why I should pay more for something
when I can get it for quite a lot less. So I just dropped the link. Sorry, go ahead.
Oh, I was just going to the greetings and happy new year to Western Australia and Australia.
You class at 10, 15 a.m. Eastern time, which was about two months ago.
Happy new year to everyone there. So yeah, I dropped a URL in chat.
It goes to cdimage.debian.org slash cdimage slash ports slash snapshots slash 2020-12-03.
That is the snapshot as a vet date for the Debian installer for a few ports that are
not supported. They're unofficially supported. I guess you could say they're unofficial ports.
So you have there for alpha for the PA risk, HPPA risk, CPU, itanium, the Motorola 68K platform,
32-bit, and 64-bit power PC, and sparse 64. All right. Use at your own risk.
So what do I see on mastodon? I see on mastodon that you bought a pine foam.
Actually, that was given to me by a friend that he DJs from time to time over on
tilde radio, and he sent it to me. He told me he had one, and if I was interested, I was like,
yeah, sure. And I said, what do you want for it? He was like, no, I'll send it to you. It's
been sitting. It's just been collecting dust that were here with me. So I'll send it to you. I'm
like, well, at least let me cover for shipping. I was like, no, no, just don't worry about it.
So I was like, okay, this is a little belated birthday gift from earlier this month. So I'll
ask like, all right, just recently bought a battery for it because that's the only thing it didn't
have a battery. So I bought a battery for it that's compatible with the Samsung Galaxy J7, I guess
it is, or the J7, the 2015 model. And I have it there. I've been playing around with it.
This is the post market OS community edition with the FOSPHOS interface. And it's intriguing.
It's intriguing. It is rough around the edges, in my opinion, though, to try and use,
I don't know if I'd use it as a daily driver, but I've been thinking of reflashing it with the
kind of their edge version of the OS, but with PlasmaMobile as the interface to see what that's like.
Now, you know, flash it or just get an SD card and pop it in there and try something else.
Yeah, I haven't, all the SD cards I've got, I'm sure I can use one of them. And just at least
to run it that way and then flash it over to the EMMC to try and use that way.
Well, there's also something that came out with a multi-boot image that has, like,
I want to say, it was like eight different operating systems on it that you can try out,
and everything between all of the variants of post market OS to Arch Linux ARM,
Mobion, was it Sailfish OS, all sorts of ones that you can try out, that you can flash onto an SD
card and use. But you're right, I got one. I got the UB ports one, and it's a really fun device,
but it's definitely not close to being able to be a daily driver just yet.
Yes, I played around with the Fairphone this year to review for customers. I was running Android,
but it is something that it's more open on the hardware side where you can completely swap out
the components, and they're all made kind of like, you know, durable and aware of both the
environment and the people that build it and stuff. But that's not the same thing, is it?
No, from my understanding, the pine community is coming up with ways that you can swap out
some of the components. I know they come up with a newer motherboard that you can swap into it,
and they're talking about different ways to put like a battery pack on the back, and then
they're like a battery type thing where they're looking into like a slide out keyboard for it as
well. There's all sorts of things that they're doing with it. Yeah, that's one of the things that
I saw with the Fairphone. You can basically, if you get a screwdriver with it, by the way, and you
can almost completely take it apart and swap out the parts yourself. The problem with the
pine phone are, sorry, Fairphone is that they have binary blobs in there, and now their
earlier phones are completely useless because the source code for the binary blobs were released,
and they have mentioned that that was an oversight, that they were warned about at the time,
but they didn't do anything about it. Do you know, by the way, Kim, that's a Dutch company that
makes it? Yeah, and I think it's very disappointing that that happened,
and that's an issue that the Pine64 has been struggling with is trying to get manufacturers
to release their binary blobs. I think it's a measure of how little I follow this kind of thing
that I'd never even heard of the pine phone until you guys mentioned it just now.
Well, if you go to Birmingham, you can pick up mine. No, thanks, I'm good. I'm just going to drop off
again while I read the privacy statements of bots in space. The bots in space? Is that like a novel
or something? No, it's a, it's a, who posted it in there? Yeah, John, no. That was me, I
partially submitted it to you. Or Archer 72 did, yeah. Yeah, it's, I was looking for an entry into
the Fediverse for a bot and Archer 72 had the link bots in space. Perfect. To me, and for HGUR.
Back in a bit. See you again. Oh, by the way, did anyone catch the Nigma's latest show about
building a server where we can all drop off code and content and exchange it that way? I have not
heard that. When was that? I listened to it this morning, so I think it's one of the latest shows.
I'll confess, I've hardly listened to any shows in the last eight or nine months. I mean,
there was a time where I was posting shows all the time and then pandemic happened and I've never
been busier because of the position I hold at the university and I can't even listen to the shows.
I totally, totally understand that. I went like no more commutes. I'm going to have so much time
to listen to podcasts and that basically didn't happen. The time I went out with no more commutes
has been eaten up by more work. That could definitely happen. Just listen to 5x speed and you'll catch
up real quick. Yeah, I listen at 1.7 already and that's, I mean, I could listen at two times. That'd
be my max. Yeah, same for me. Funny thing though is when I listen to everybody at normal speed,
everyone sounds like they're drunk. Exactly, yeah. Everybody is.
Hey, that's a good way to hide it too. Now, by the way, the show HBR3239 Community Project
proposal by Enigma. Yeah, I saw I mentioned that on, I think I saw it. Yeah, it's an episode. I
haven't yet to listen to it. I have it on my podcast. Hey, guys, I'm going to drop off for a bit.
I'll be back in a couple of hours. Have fun. Until then. See you.
Take it easy now. Why is it? If I don't see it, Happy New Year.
Still about five, seven hours to go. Yeah, so we'll be fine. We're not going anyway.
Yeah, yeah. Just in case I don't get back by the time it's, you know, I get to talk to you again.
Just have a Happy New Year. All right. Roger, Roger. Same thing. Bye.
Claudio, are you in Miami? Do I recall that correctly?
Yes, I'm in Miami, Florida. Okay. Seems like I can recall seeing your username
going back many, many years. Were you part of the Linux outlaw's crowd way back in the day?
No, but I was a co-host on Linux basement with Chad Wallenberg.
Okay. I don't know that I ever listened to that one.
Maybe I saw you on Identica. Yes, I was on Identica too. And you didn't miss much with Linux
basement. And Chad and I tend to be self-deprecating when it comes to that podcast.
Okay. Yeah, I don't think I know, Chad. Claudio, you're involved in some kind of music production too,
right? That just says a hobby. I have a small setup I have. Well, right now soon I should be
setting everything up again the way I had it. I have an old Kawaii K4 synth that was my first
pro synth, I guess you could say. And in 2005 I got myself a Yamaha S08, the weighted full
88 keys. And that's been my go-to synths. And with that I used my Linux laptop. I run Fedora
and I've got some music apps on there. I've been using Q tractor, been using hydrogen,
some software synths like AM synth, was the Yoshimi. Just recently I was playing around with Odin
2, which is amazing. And I've been looking at giving Arter a shot since it now has MIDI support.
So I might be able to do what Q tractor has been doing for me. And I can overcome some of the
issues I'm having with Q tractor still. As a matter of fact, I just, or Pat,
Pat DeVilla from the Linux link tech show had uploaded an episode where he and I discussed
the state of Linux audio in 2020. It was a lot of fun. Oh yeah, that's cool, that's cool.
I was gonna give that a quick listen last night and just before going to sleep. I was like,
no, this should be like about five minutes and then it says 52 minutes. Okay, I'll save it for later.
Yeah, I rambled quite a bit. Hey guys, what's up? Howdy.
Hello there. Happy pre-new year. I said, I said, Linux link tech show and then you shut up Joe.
Awesome. I missed yesterday's and then I missed last weeks.
Well, I think that can be forgiven given the holiday season. The time of the year, yeah.
Yesterday I had a Zoom party with friends that I haven't seen all year and then last week was
Christmas. Yeah, about his house. Yeah, when's the finishing date on that again?
I think they moved it back to like 2038. Just in time for the Unix disaster. Yeah,
is that the end of the 32-bit era? Yeah, I think we might see that happen before we see Joe
in the house. Yeah, I still have the, I have yesterday's Linux link tech show still waiting to
be listened to on my pod catcher. I haven't, I haven't even started. I've just jumped in here to
should chat with all you. Yeah, I just woke up a few minutes ago. I still have a lovely hangover
from last night's Zoom party. So it's really disconcerting how quiet it gets when everyone's microphones
are are off. I wonder if that has something to do with those who have been involved with audio
and kind of tend to cringe at just utter silence. I think we've all gotten used to muting
ourselves now. I mean, I've had hundreds of Zoom meetings in the last nine months and
pretty much everyone now knows to turn your mic off when you're in a meeting. At first,
it was pretty chaotic. I still have some co-workers that haven't learned that.
Lately, who doesn't turn off the mic is whoever the big boss in the room is, they usually leave
their mic hot. When running the meeting? Yeah, or else the highest ranking person in the meeting,
the provost of the university or something like that. Now, half the time still, my supervisor
has to tell some of the other people on the on the confidence to meet their mic. It's pretty sad.
At least one stranger conference. Everybody, please mute your mics.
Well, I'm hoping that I don't know if I mentioned I think a little bit on my recent episode that
I'm starting a new job basically tomorrow at the university. I've been the director of the
School of Music and Performing Arts for the last five years. After 15 years as just music
faculty and then starting tomorrow, I'm going to be the interim associate dean at the college level.
Step higher up in administration. Congratulations. I still don't know exactly what the job will
entail, but I know that I will go from having about 60 people reporting to me to having zero
reporting to me, which I think could be a welcome relief. I was about to say the associate
dean level and have less people reporting to you. Well, it's that the associate dean is kind of like
the right-hand man to the dean and the dean. So you're hitting all the people that are reporting
to the dean? Well, not really. I mean, I'm not directly in the reporting structure. It's a kind of
a mid-level administrative position that handles things, represents the college at various
on committees, on campus and at events and stands in for the dean, has signatory power like the
dean in the dean's absence. But there's not that many people reporting. I don't think anybody reports
directly to me. I mean, the dean only has seven or eight people reporting directly to him and then
each department head and director has a lot under them. I don't know. Anyway, I feel like I could be
totally wrong about this, but I feel like my headaches will go down as a result of this change
because one thing I learned about being the director slash department head is that whenever there's
a problem in the school of music, it's my problem. At first, I didn't understand this and I kept
asking, is this my problem? And the answer was always yes, it's my problem. Perhaps an upshot of the
change in position will mean I can record episodes for each pair again. I don't know. We will see.
I've got a list of topics and it's a matter of sitting down and doing it. Well, if you end up with
more free time, do you do your new position? Just do more podcasts.
Yeah, you know, there's certain things. Somebody on my Twitter feed today posted a message like,
okay, so I finally took care of this thing that's been on my to-do list since March. It took me five
minutes. You know, I've got a number of things of that kind that I started way back in March and
didn't finish that if I just did them, it wouldn't take very long. And, you know, recording a podcast
takes a little longer than five minutes, but most of the time it doesn't take more than an hour.
Depends on the podcast. It does depend on the podcast. I've gotten good enough at it where I can
usually take care of the entire process in less than an hour. As long as you have all your settings
dialed in and you're the only person in the room, then yeah, five minutes.
I do not typically do co-hosted ones, although I've done a handful, a couple with one with
Windigo and with NY Bill, a couple with Dave Morris, but typically I go solo.
Well, add this one to the mix because you're co-hosting right now.
Ah, okay, okay. I hope my audio level is not too high.
No, you sound good.
Excellent. I tried to check on it before hand going into my volume controls. It looks like it registers,
but will not distort and clip. So hopefully it's going to be okay.
Are you going to help me join TILTS and what the Linux lug cast?
I'll let anybody on those shows I swear.
If you're going to go on Linux Link Tech Show, just make sure to turn up your gain so you blow
everyone's ears out, all right?
Right, and make sure.
Just type a protocol.
Make sure every time you talk, that's the other thing you say over top of them.
So you step on toes and you turn it up really loud.
The toes you step on is Joel's toes.
Okay, that's not hard to do.
Poor Joel, everyone rags on him.
Well, that's because he has the same three topics.
They get kind of boring.
I mean, it's either his house, his CPAP machine.
And I know I'm almost as bad because I talk to Joel about those things, but
his house is CPAP machine and his new position at work.
I'm not three printing, you missed that one.
Well, we haven't talked about 3D printing in a while.
Or at least Joel hasn't, at least not much.
You know what I do miss from the show?
I miss the bats that everyone took on what Joel had for dinner.
He hasn't been showing up late, or at least not that late.
But yeah, that used to be fun.
We used to have more people on the pre-show too.
I mean, Rich hasn't been coming on as much, and so it's usually me, Pat, and Dan.
Man, I've been listening to Tiltz.
Geez, when was the first time I listened to him?
It was around, maybe 2005.
I've been listening since the round then.
Not since the early days.
I think that the episode that got me hooked on the show was the RMS episode.
And that was before my time.
That was before I started listening.
But I heard that, and I said, I'm going to check this out.
I kind of randomly ended up on there in 2016.
I don't think I've ever heard it.
I've heard of it.
And I might have tried to listen to an episode,
but I think that might be one of the podcasts where I was turned off
by the uneven audio quality.
Yeah.
It's not a lot of post-production.
I don't even listen to it.
Political quality.
Or Dan compiling a colonel during the show,
or playing a game during the show.
It's not usually Dan playing a game during the show.
It's Joel's son.
Okay, yeah, I know.
Dan hasn't been doing that, but I remember there was a time where
it's like legendary now that Dan was compiling a colonel during the show,
and everything just died.
Of course, he could get on and verify all that,
because I know I'm wrong on something about regarding that.
I'm pretty sure he's punting on being off sometimes today.
Probably Joel too.
Which Dan is this?
The only Dan I know related to Linux podcasts is,
okay, I've heard of him.
Yeah, there's Dan Wash going, Dan Fry.
Dan Lynch is the only one.
Yeah, he was doing the,
he was doing Floss Weekly for a while,
but I haven't heard him on lately.
Who, Dan Lynch?
Dan Lynch, yeah.
Yeah, I haven't really heard him since Linux Outlaws.
Yeah, it's a lot of issues that took him away for a while,
and let's know who's there.
That's too bad.
I'm glad to hear he's back.
I always liked Dan very much.
Gentle chained.
Hey, Ken, how you been?
It's been a year.
It's been a year.
That's something that I'll fall right here.
It's been a year.
I've been, I've been good.
Getting a bit, uh,
understanding what a prisoner might feel like,
locked in their cell all day.
Yeah, it starts driving you baddie after a while,
but the nice thing is, is, you know,
I can, if it's not pouring rain,
I can get the bike and go biking at 2 a.m.
I started riding my recumbent bike again during the pandemic,
and it's been excellent.
I had not ridden it in a couple of years,
and it was left over at my other house.
I've got a, we've got a new house,
and then we've started renting the old one to someone else,
and I left my recumbent in the storage shed over there,
and then one day I decided I'm going to go get that
and start riding because during the initial stages of the lockdown,
like there was nobody on the roads.
Yeah.
And, uh, man, it's like the best thing on a bicycle
is when there's nobody driving.
Well, especially on a recumbent, um,
I'd be worried about riding one in, in my area around here,
because nobody gives a shit, and they will run you over.
Yeah.
It's hard to see, and I mean, I've got that,
I've got that flag sticking up and waving around,
but I still would not, I, I still try to stay off of any
big, busy main roads, um,
and recumbents are a little bit expensive.
I built mine, and, uh, it was custom designed and built.
Or you, I used to the plans by this,
I did a whole HPR episode about it,
and maybe probably my most popular episode was
the recumbent bike-building episode.
I did that seven years ago, six or seven years ago,
so you could listen to it and check out the photos,
but spawned another series on, uh,
who else built?
Yeah, there was another guy.
There was another guy who was, who,
who got started on that anyway,
and I keep waiting for a follow-up,
and maybe I've just finished it.
Yeah, good, finished it, yeah, you missed it, I think.
Yeah, that probably happened while I was, uh,
not paying attention, but I should go back and find that.
It sounded very promising.
Anyway, the, it, it didn't cost nearly as much to build it
as to buy it.
I think the total amount I spent was $300.
That's not bad at all.
And 140 of that was getting the powder coat done professionally.
Brian and Ohio is the guy who did it.
He just finished it.
It's one of the bicycle hacking series.
Okay, I'll, I'll go check that out for sure.
I definitely want to hear how that came out.
Mine, mine still rides beautifully,
and so I, I get out on the weekends and ride it for four or five miles,
and it's, uh, yeah.
It's so comfortable, it's really fun,
and it's, it's always a conversation piece, too.
Um, so, did you fabricate the parts,
or did you, uh,
they're hacked together from other bicycles?
Oh, you take donor bicycles, cut them all up,
and put them back together in a different way,
and, uh, braze weld them.
There's a guy up in Wisconsin, I believe.
I think it was Wisconsin,
a Wisconsin or Minnesota somewhere who has plans online.
He calls it recycled recumbence,
and, uh, he will build them,
but he also just freely shared his plans.
And so I took the plans and found a couple of donor bikes that I got for free,
and then picked up other bits and pieces here and there.
And, um, I, I did it.
It was super fun,
and it's made a bike that's really great to ride.
Uh, I was just about to say hello to Lohanji,
and, uh, he dropped off.
But hello to Urugami.
And I requested the count on bots in space.
Uh, it's K-Wish on right now.
He sure is.
Hey, K-Wish, how's it going?
Don't get too much self.
Like I said,
or a little hungover,
but,
going pretty good.
We're in an interesting year.
Yes, very interesting.
Tell me about it.
Is Honky on or just recording right now?
I hate you.
Usually jumps on with another session.
Honky Magudash Mobile,
when he speaks.
Okay.
So going back a bit earlier in the conversation,
I heard everybody talking about the,
the Raspberry Pi 4,
or the 400 I think it was.
Anybody look at getting that?
Oh, probably not anytime soon.
For me, the kit is between $70 and $100.
But I don't need another computer.
As weird as that sounds right now.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I looked at the 400.
I was like, oh boy,
I really, really, the geek in me really wants this.
Absolutely.
But it's just not a practical thing for me right now.
But it's slightly more powerful than the form.
And yeah, it has a keyboard,
or it's built into a keyboard.
But other than that,
how is it more useful than my four?
It only comes with the four gig of RAM.
I can get a four with eight gig of RAM.
Yeah, I'm sure.
I know there was talk about why they didn't come out with an eight.
I'm sure we'll see one later next year.
Yeah, or this year if you're already in 2021.
You got to keep the demand for it.
Yeah, I'm going to take off.
It's been fun hanging out for a little while.
Happy new year, everybody.
Happy new year to you, John.
Thanks for joining us.
Yeah, you bet.
I'm going to try to record more episodes in the new year.
I've got to have at least a couple to my name
in order to keep Ken off my back.
See y'all.
Ken, you got it recorded.
So there you go.
I'll do it.
I think, yeah, with regards to the Raspberry Pi,
I haven't seen that 4,000 unit locally in South Africa.
But it sounds like it's a closed unit.
Yeah, yeah, it's basically kind of like,
yeah, it kind of looks like or tries to resemble
like a Commodore 64 or VIC-20 like that.
I mean, it's basically a computer or like
the old Atari computers.
It's a computer inside of the keyboard itself.
It feels kind of like a small battery, 600.
And I think it has a GPIO header exposed.
Yes.
OK, so at least I didn't take away from the
capability of it.
No, no, there wouldn't.
I think it was all to satisfy Ken Fallon's obsession
with, you know, Raspberry Pi computers.
There's still one thing that I want to try and
build at some point.
And I've seen it in some of the the White Hat blogs.
We take a Raspberry Pi, you install a GSM unit on it
and then use it to bypass firewall.
So if you have physical access to a building,
you can connect via GPRAs and then you basically
on the local network.
I think that sounds like a fun project.
Sorry, how do you bypass the firewall then?
You're just going through another network then, or?
Yeah, so basically from external, you are blocked with firewalls,
so you cannot access the local area network.
But if you have access to the building,
you can install this device on a network port.
And then from your machine,
you just connect through the GPRAs IP address with SSH.
And then you basically use the Ethernet port
that's connected to the LAN to navigate the local network.
Oh, that's a sage bridge.
Yeah, basically like that.
That's kind of what I'm doing with my old,
one of the Raspberry Pi Model B,
so that's the version one Model B.
I got NetBSD on it and it works quite well.
Yeah, I think it'll be interesting if you can walk into a client's building.
We have to do some testing and then you present them with this with a report saying that
there's a new firewall to set up good, everything's fine.
But by the way, I do have access to a local network and this is how.
Stars don't look at your physical security as well.
Yeah, I'm not sure how well they will take that.
Well, if they pay you to find floors and you give them a floor,
then at least they can address it.
Yeah, I guess.
All right, guys, I'm going to jump off as well.
We're going to go to a barbecue with some friends.
I'll probably be back in about five hours from now.
Barbecue.
Enjoy and happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks, you guys.
Yeah, in South Africa, we call it a bribe.
All right, I'm going to leave myself logged in, but I'll be back in a few minutes.
Yeah, I think I'm going to drop off for a little bit.
I'll try and be back later.
I want to see if I hit the gym before anything.
And then just got to take care of a couple things here.
Sir, have a nice one.
If I chance, I'm not back in time.
Happy New Year to you all.
But I think I'll be back.
Happy New Year, Claudio.
Likewise.
Okay, we need to say happy New Year and greetings to China and 12 more.
Beijing, Hong Kong, Manila, Singapore.
Happy New Year.
Has anybody else excited for the Doctor Who special?
I think that has been just me.
I just watched, I didn't watch the last season yet.
Latest season.
What was the name of the special?
Something revolution of the Daleks or something?
Yeah, I'm checking right now to see what time it's going to be available.
Like big Daleks specials are always fun.
Yeah, two of the companions are leaving.
Sorry.
Two of the companions are leaving.
Oh, no.
Nope, we can't hear you.
Looks like your mic is muted.
No, that's John Pertwee.
You spelled it wrong.
6.45 pm.
Hello.
Hey, what's up?
I don't know how much.
Just trying to get a picture figured out here.
How's it going, Joe?
Not bad.
Debating what I want to eat for breakfast.
That tends to be a simple decision for me.
Better now.
Yeah.
Okay, I had it on the inter-
laptop microphone.
Well, glad you got it fixed.
Thanks.
So how's it going?
Good, I was trying to tell the snops of superheroes because then nobody else was on.
They're all dead.
I'm still in the morning brain fog.
My wonderful wife let me sleep in and I slept in it entirely too late.
My wife went off to work.
They don't let her off on New Year's Eve.
That is unfortunate.
So that leaves me home with the cat and a dog.
It could be worse.
My dog sleeps all day anyway, so it doesn't matter.
The cat hasn't bothered me except for food.
Can you, can you send your dog to teach my dog how to just do that?
Because mine is just a ball of
blah all the time.
How big is your dog?
He's a little terrier makes.
She's a cordium.
Yeah, this was this was a stray that just showed up in our house and we took in and he's
the vet thinks he's a little over a year old but he is definitely still puppy.
We rescued her and she's 10 years old and so she's pretty quiet now.
And the cat is a cranky old man.
He's seven but he acts like he's older.
Yeah, our cat has to be 105 at this point.
He has like two good teeth and just will not tolerate the dog at all.
It's kind of funny to watch them because the dog thinks that when the cat smacks him
upside the head that they're just playing and they're really not.
Yeah, it's a love-hate relationship here too.
It's funny.
They'll sleep on the bed together but then they'll fight like all cats and dogs.
Well, it's funny because we the cat was another thing that we just took in
but we got him after he was de-clawed as an adult which is a big no-no.
And so he doesn't have any claws so it does just look like he's playing but he's tried it
as hard as he can to dock that dog out and he just can't do it.
So when I thought I was unmuted I was talking about how my only entertainment is a
Cody box and I recently got to put a tear white drive on it.
Nikes. I used to have a Cody box but it did not often pass the approval of the spouse so
it's eventually take it out and she just does regular TV stuff now but I enjoyed a lot.
I don't even use it directly on the TV that much anymore.
I just streamed on my laptop.
I almost never watch anything on an actual TV.
No, usually a small screen. I'll sit in my bedroom and watch the end of a show by there.
Yeah, that's been part of my project while I've been off for a month is trying to catch up on
TV shows that I willfully fell behind on.
That's me too. I don't have any modern shows because I don't have broadcast TV.
Yeah, everything I've been watching has been through Netflix or Disney Plus.
That's pretty much most of the things that I want to watch on those two services.
Disney Plus for Mandalorian or anything else?
Yeah, Mandalorian is the big thing but we have a two-year-old so Disney Plus is right up her alley.
She's a huge Mickey fan so that works out to our benefit and I like just when I want something
on that's not something I need to pay attention to like 90 Spider-Man or X-Men cartoons are
just perfect for that. Or do you test?
Hey, you would get down.
Hey.
Hello. Good.
Problem solved.
Yeah, it was transmission in the configurations. I was the voice activity or push-to-talk.
This is continuous.
So push-to-talk wasn't working?
True.
That's less than helpful.
I'll just use the mute button.
Cool.
I'd like to say IOU a show.
I started recording things but I need to edit things together.
That's cool. We always like new shows.
And don't feel bad. I've got like five of them on my hard drive that I need to get ready.
Including one about to record.
And it looks like Claudio's in here but he's not but it's going to be my
reaction to his last word about Linux Audio.
Introductions.
Yeah, I need to edit.
It's hard to know what people will be interested in and I can go off on tangents.
That's fine. We like tangents.
Yeah, I was going to say best not even concern yourself with that. Just put it out.
It's amazing how much sometimes somebody will post a show about a thing.
And where they go is more interesting than the original topic of their episode.
So yeah, I wouldn't concern myself too much about that.
A show is better than no show.
I'll do it. I mean, I appreciate why I've been hearing from people.
You know, it's encouraging.
Yeah, we're all just figuring it out as we go.
So don't know. Don't concern yourself too much with quality or any of that stuff.
Hey, tell us how they're doing.
Hey, what's up, Hockey?
Just sitting here, fighting with Jack.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, me and Linux Audio are not getting along real well right now.
Really? What made you want to play with Jack?
So basically, it's kind of a, I'm calling it a secret project, although it's not a secret project.
Anybody who knows who I hang out with what I'm doing recently probably can figure it out.
I was asked to write some music for a show and I haven't composed anything really since
I made the move to Linux because Linux Audio is a dumpster fire.
So I was like, okay, this is the excuse to kind of get back into it.
And yeah, it's, it's a mess.
Just trying to get things back to, trying to get things to a place where I can't write
is troubling.
From my understanding, a bunch of studio is supposed to be really good with just the fact
of the way they have Jack set up.
And there is a certain version of the Linux kernel that really plays well with the audio.
I believe I'm, again, I'm not, I'm not very well versed in Linux Audio, but that's what I've heard.
Yeah, you can use a real dump kernel.
I mean, for me, it's archer didn't happen or an archer derivative and it didn't happen.
But yeah, I mean, I could get it to sort of work.
It's just the, so when I was doing like this professionally and doing it all the time,
I was using Macs because that's kind of what we learned in school and it was the industry standard.
And it's just nice that everything auto routes or, you know, the only problem is sometimes
you want it to route a certain way and it won't. But with this, you have to explicitly patch
everything the way you want it. And sometimes it's like, I don't want it's been 15 minutes patching
everything together. I just want to sit down and get ideas out. And I'm just not to the point where
that's fluid enough. And in the past, that's what stopped me from doing it is I'll have an idea
or I'll have like all my little doodles that I have that I've written down to, to like play with.
And I'll sit down at the keyboard and try to get it in the computer. And it's just like,
I got to spend 20 minutes patching everything together to talk to the DAW or to talk to MewScore to
put it in. And it's, that's been the barrier to entry. Now that I haven't used to do it, I mean,
I'm doing it, but it is still frustrating. Yeah, I understand that. It's one of those, like,
I like the power aspect of it. I like that it is so intricate and it's really sort of a power
user thing. But sometimes I don't want to power user thing. I just want it to work. But a lot
of audio stuff for Linux requires Jack. And so you have to jump through that hoop. Maybe once I
get all my presets done and said it'll be a lot easier. Yeah, everybody I talked to has always been
meaning to learn Jack or meaning to set up Jack. And then I don't know if anybody that actually
has become an expert in Jack. It seems like people pretty much what I just said from from looking
around. If people poke around at it until they get to work, what they want to work. And then they
just that that's all they go with it because it's like, okay, I got it to work. Just don't touch
it. Don't breathe in the direction of it. And then everything will just function the way it should.
There's lots of people online that have tutorials and stuff. But the problem is is if you're using
this distro or that distro, it seems like things are very particular. Like there's a there's
really two Jack control programs. There's Q Jack control, which is sort of the that's the hard
core power user one where nothing is configured when you open it up. And then there's cadence.
And I spent a whole day trying to get cadence to work because it's more user friendly. And it
just wouldn't talk to the Jack D bus. It was like, okay, I guess I'm switching into hard mode here
because it's the only option I have. But it's just there's a better way to do it. I'm not
smart enough to come up with a better way. I hear pipe wires going to fix a lot of this. But
as of right now, it's just it's it's tedious more than anything. Hey, Taj. Hey, everyone again.
Claudio, my man. We're speaking your language. Hello. Yeah, I came in right. I came in at the right time.
So Linux audio makes me want to gouge my eyeballs out with a spoon.
I can relate. Why is it everybody that does one ex audio says that exact phrase?
I hate extra. I hate X runs. And have I mentioned I hate X runs? I have so far not had a lot of problems
with that. It happens. Well, I haven't tried. I haven't tried lately since I've upgraded my laptop
with an SSD. It might be better. Situation might be better, but I guess I'll have to see.
I also upgraded to a better version of the laptop I had before. So I went from a 9.3 processor to
a 9.5 processor went from well, they had six gigs of RAM. Now I had a has eights and yeah, I just
got an SSD for it. So yeah, although it should help. Yeah, I had mentioned the earlier
Pat from Linux link tech show and I did an episode on the state of Linux audio in 2020,
which was I thought I thought I was going to be a mess on that one, but I wasn't too half bad with
the information. Yeah, actually, I listened to that yesterday. And because I'm fighting with it
currently and it was helpful, but it was also for me, it was frustrating, because those like
these guys already have a figure down and I don't. Yeah, I had to sit down, just kind of take the
time one day and say, I'm going to try and get Jack configured the way I wanted to. And actually,
I did initially, I did most of it through Q not Q jack CTL. I did it through Q tractor,
because it has a connections button where you can set up the MIDI connections and everything.
And it's super easy there. So I just avoid configuring it through Q jack CTL completely.
Though the one that's in Fedora has now an option where you actually get, because I remember when
I was still on Mac OS 10, the way you would connect the devices through MIDI and audio, it was all
graphical. So you kind of have like a visual representation of everything. You just run lines to it.
And this version, the latest version that's on Fedora, it actually was there a couple of versions
back to. There's an option of there's a way of doing it visually and not through just running
lines from that row of devices and everything. So you can have like an oval with the name of the
device and it has that in and out. And then you could just run the lines to however you want to run
it to get the MIDI flow or the audio flow. Yeah, that is sort of my understanding from watching a
bunch of videos and trying to get it figured out is that that is more, the program cadence is more
like the Mac side of things, which is what I'm used to as well. Granted, I was used to it like 20
years ago. So it's definitely probably changed since then, but it is more graphical and things like
that. Although you can do a little bit of that with Q jack CTL, but it is just kind of jank.
But I couldn't get Keynes to run to save my life. So I'm like I said, I just switched to hard mode,
and I'll just I'll learn it with Q jack CTL. And I think I think I tried Keynes a while back
and I had similar problems. If I remember correctly, I had similar problems that you had. And I just
said, hell with it, let me stick with what works. It's rougher, it's harder, but it works. So yeah,
but I just I just do the, since I was using Q tractor, I just did the connections for MIDI that
way. And for the audio too. Yeah, I haven't decided on what DAW I'm going to wind up using.
Because sort of what I've been doing is I'm I'm old school. I sit down with like manuscript
paper and write down ideas. The only reason I ever used technology when I was writing before was
to make sheet music for musicians. That was it. So that's that's how I think. And I'm writing down
ideas like that. And then I've got to figure out how to get that MIDI into a DAW and start playing
with it. And then I did get my guitar system routed into jack and into a really cool amp
modeler and effects processor. So that that was a win. I like that. But then getting that to talk to
our door or whatever I wind up using is going to be the next battle I have to fight. Yeah.
Yeah, I was thinking of probably switching over to Arter. But I actually got to sit down and do it.
Yeah, I kind of narrowed it down to either that or LMMS. LMMS seems simpler. So I don't know.
Our door is like I was used to using Pro Tools and our door looks more complicated in the
Pro Tools. So I'm you know, it's just what do I want to learn and how much time do I want to put
into it? Yeah, I had started way way back with some sequencing software. I was using MasterTracks Pro
at the time. And then from that, I moved to GarageBand on on OS10, which kind of was it was
similar to that. And then when I left Mac OS10 and I started doing things mainly on Linux,
the only one that I found that was close to the look and feel, more the feel. I didn't care
so much about the look, but the feel was Q tractor. But like I mentioned in that episode,
there's still some things that bother me about it, especially when it comes to mixing down to a file.
So if Arter's MIDI implementation has is more robust than when I first heard about it,
then I'm going to move over to that. If I remember correctly like a year ago or something,
there was a big hub hub about them adding a bunch of MIDI stuff. So I'm sure it's gotten better.
Yeah, we'll see. I've got what three more days of my winter break vacation. So at some point in
that time, I guess I can test it out. We're on a similar schedule because that's pretty much what
I'm doing. Yeah. But yeah, if you want a really good software synth, Odin 2, definitely recommend it.
Yeah, I had a... There's a YouTuber, I think his name's like Umfa or something like that.
Yeah, Umfa. Yeah, he does lots of stuff and I saw he has a thing about it and I wanted to
check that out. I've got a list on my desk of videos of his that I want to see because his videos
have been some of the things that have got me the furthest. So he's a good reference to get started.
Yeah, I added it to the to the show notes post post upload and I guess canter someone. One of the
janitors for the custodians for Hacker Public Radio added it to the to the episode entry.
Gotta love our janitors. Yep. So what other software do you use for music? To be completely honest,
what I... I guess I told them before you popped on the... This is the first time I've set
now and tried to write music in probably 20 years. It used to be my job. Yeah, I haven't done it
in so long and I haven't done it since I made the Switch to Linux. So it's really at this point
just getting myself a back used to writing things again, which has been remarkably difficult.
And getting over the barrier of actually getting that stuff into a computer to manipulate.
Because I... I was used to writing music and handing it to musicians and having like real instruments.
Which has always been a limiting factor for me because that's kind of the sound I like.
So I'm using this as an excuse to like play with more synth sounds and things like that because I
hate like orchestral synths. They're terrible and they make my ears want to bleed. So...
Yeah, I don't blame you. Playing with new sounds and trying to like expand my vocabulary into new
things is the goal. Gotcha. Yeah. Well, because I hate myself so much, I have been curious to do what
I'm doing on Linux on a couple of BSDs. I haven't tried on free BSD, but I think the support is
much better there. For multimedia, I was trying on Open BSD and there's apps there, there's some
apps there. Q tractors not on Open BSD and the ports. Now I think it has a lot to do with some of
these apps where they have a lot of what they say, Linux isms, where they tend to be geared more
for Linux use than for... than to be portable. So that one's not there, but I think Rose Garden
is on there. But the problem is that the Yamaha that I have, even though the system detects it,
it just detects it as a generic MIDI device. We're not even a MIDI device, just detects it as a generic
USB device. And it doesn't detect it as a MIDI device to create the device files for MIDI.
I tried with my USB... Now this one I know won't work, but I know that they have the firmware files
on free BSD. So I can always upload those files to the USB to MIDI adapter I have. It's a MIDI
man USB... I forgot what it's called. It's a 2x2 USB, the MIDI support, that's what it is. And it
works on Linux and all the firmware files are on the repos. And as far as I know, I think that
free BSD has it, but OpenBSD does not. So that definitely won't work. But since my synth has a USB
port on it, I try plugging that in, but it doesn't detect it. So there's... I got some... some
information from some of the OpenBSD devs on what to do. And... But I just haven't sat down to try
and go further with that. Sorry to interrupt, but we need to send out happy new year
and greetings to much of Indonesia, Thailand, and Sevenmore, Jakarta, Bangkok,
Hanoi, Palm, Penn. I'd like to remind everybody to please, please edit the Etherpad show notes
for your time for the time span. So I have two comments, Claudio. Number one, it is totally on
brand for you to move, try to move all this to BSD. Nobody was not expecting that to happen.
And two, I'm surprised BSD has like an audio system to be completely honest.
Oh yeah, they've had it for a while. OpenBSD uses SNDIO, and I think free BSD uses OSS,
but you can even switch out, you can use SNDIO as well on there.
Yeah, my experience with BSD is basically free NAS, and that's the only experience I've
had with it. They can drop the link for the Etherpad again. Just dropped it in chat. Thanks.
Yeah, I dropped the unfuzz YouTube channel on there on the Etherpad.
All right, everyone, while I'm going to drop off for a bit and go with my son of the gym,
and I may jump on again later. Good evening. Later. Later, Claudio. I have a good one.
Likewise, catch you later. Dr. Hu, so much potential and so much repetition.
That's another one of the shows on my list of I need to get caught up.
I'm like three years behind. Well, probably more than three years, because I'm like three seasons
behind. I stopped watching because just too many Daleks. Yeah, I don't know. I grew up with like
old Dr. Hu on PBS, so that was my jam. And then, yeah, for sure. In the middle of the night,
just is a kid watching it when you weren't supposed to be watching it, but you were watching it
anyways. And I didn't dislike New Who until Matt Smith. And then once that happened, I mean,
I watched all of that, but it just got to be too epic. I guess it's the word I would use,
like everything had to tie into everything and everything was the end of the universe, which,
I mean, isn't Dr. Hu, but it just seemed like it was very convoluted in self-referential.
And I watched a couple episodes of, I guess, Capaldi, and I just never finished.
That's sadly understandable. Yeah, the self-referential, and just as it
implied, the potential and the budget that they appeared to have compared to, you know,
1980, something when it was pretty theatrical as in local theatre. It just seemed like
the script writers. They could have, of all the scripts that people must send them.
I feel like it, it's sort of a thing that I dislike in a lot of modern science fiction,
that the scope of everything has to be so big that it just becomes meaningless.
I have the same problem with Star Trek right now that everything has to be, you know,
universe ending every episode and everything has to be a giant mystery that has to be solved.
I just sort of miss, hey, this was a good story that lasted an episode. And that's fine.
Like, it doesn't have to connect anything else. It could just be a single story that's good.
Right, so concept, if the concept of the end of time is just the end, right, we understand
that's the end. It would be bad. It might be bad. How much is it going to hurt? Will it hurt for
the whole time? You know, but a good story with psychology that you understand that shifts you
between emotions or gives you a different concept, that would be useful. Yeah, for sure.
Quantitative karma values, for example, or, you know, yeah, that kind of a thing, sort of,
there's, I don't, right, idea, real physics in science fiction. And then there's, I guess
people don't want things to become too political, but we have real energy values. I think I might
go off on one. If I have a record stitch together, what do you call it, a program for HPR, an
episode on, you know, fluency in understanding energy and, you know, how many man hours there
are in a barrel of oil, that kind of thing. I would so be there for that if you make that episode
because that sounds fun. Yeah, it seems like the dual, the unit of energy might be a good
reference to have against a currency of exchange, you know, like the dollar or whatever.
I don't know. I think while I would be very interested in it, I think that, especially if you
quantify it to that extent, it, it, it starts to make, make known probably inconvenient realities
that people would have to deal with if they don't want to. Exactly. I guess people to stop watching
the program, like the doctor who, and go and do something, doesn't it? I don't know if that's
just adulthood. I think they're constantly reminded by things in media and it should prompt one
a person to go and do that thing. Well, especially when you look at, well, just media in general,
but science fiction media tends to be the biggest culprit is, hey, we have this huge, intractable
problem. We're just going to science-yancy it and then it magically just gets fixed and
I'm just using sort of coronavirus as the example. Everybody's like, well, why can't we just
make a vaccine? They can make a vaccine in 45 minutes on a TV show. Why can't we do it? You know,
in a week, the, the scale of these processes are so compressed in media that people don't
understand how much work and how much time it takes to actually accomplish things.
Right. And we do have some big problems, so it would be good.
And I recognize, well, there we are. Here we come to quantification of education or
concept propagation. You know, amongst the population of people of varying states,
in varying states of whether you call it education or, you know, here's where my stitching of
of audio needs attention, like you shouldn't talk while you're thinking, basically.
I never follow that rule. Right, so data structures. If you're good, I need like a bunch of
headings, data structure would be one, how you, and here's where like storytelling is really
useful, isn't it? If you're painting, if you take a thousand photographs and you then take the
the unique feature from each of those, say it's of this similar subject, a house or, you know,
a machine, and you take the unique feature from each of those photos and you include it in one
drawn picture, one hand drawn picture, then you have a superior data structure at the end,
you know, not necessarily photographic, but conceptually better. But wouldn't that be a
quantity versus quality argument? I mean, you're losing fidelity to cram more data and it's
basically compression at that point. I'm guessing my thought is if you say you have a limited,
so each human is trying to apply themself to the difficult problem, whether that's climate change
or starvation or, you know, disease, diseases, being a, the big killer for so long.
Anyway, point being, if there are data structures or ideas or habits that a person can,
like their walk, their traversal in the day, that can include more things, you know, they're,
they're more, like if you have a fixed amount of memory, I guess, yeah, compression is a concept,
is the concept. But in practical terms, it's behavioural adaptation, which can include fun,
or should include, you know, joyful expression. Yeah, for sure, what's the point if it doesn't?
Yeah, the only, I've heard it described by philosopher, the only relevant question,
but I'm not going to mention, I'm not going to give that the word.
My only concern when we start, when you start having conversations about data structures,
because this is not something I directly work with, but I work with the outcome of a bunch of
sort of big data when it comes to education, is that people get so blinded by the data.
That they are losing the actual stories of what is happening, like they're using the data to
justify everything they do. And that's not always the most efficacious thing to do. The data
points you in a good direction, but sometimes the data can be misleading without context. And so
when you're talking about being able to, you know, have sort of, we talked about this compression
idea, that would be interesting if we could sort of solidify all that data and have the context
included in it. I think that would be helpful. Yeah, I should clarify, when I say data structure,
I'm using a concept and idea to try to express an increase in how to do more with less, or how
people can improve a situation according to their, I guess the, either the, what, not complexity,
the interaction between things, what do you call that? Maybe I'll, it'll come to me. But quite,
that it's not the data I'm referring to a procedure, how to incorporate necessary behaviors
into a procedure with understanding. I guess that's it, that understanding is required for a person
to subtly modify their implementation to include, or to improve their technique, or it
include or produce a better outcome from the same resources or time applied.
Yeah, and specifically going back to sort of the education thing, the, the issue is when we make the,
I won't say behavioral, I would say more, you know, structural or pedagogical changes,
or you know, because we're always trying to take data and figure out how can we do more with what
we have, because clearly we're not doing good enough with what we're doing. But the problem is,
is that the data is so overwhelming and it points in so many directions that we keep doing the same,
we think the, the, the process that needs to spin out of the data is the same. And the reality is
proven that that's not true, that we, we need to do more with that data and we need to find new
patterns. But it is so convenient and so easy to just jump to the easy things. And they're the easiest
to, I mean, frankly, to get funding for that, that tends to be what, what people are doing with
the data. And so the data structure, while helpful in giving us insights, the human problem of
interpreting it is, is more of an issue than anything else. Idea. Corollary is the reduction in
interaction between humans at the moment, I mean, relating to lockdowns in the UK, where I am,
my area has just gone into tier four, which means, I mean, we're already couldn't go in our friends
garden without risk of the neighbour reporting you to the police, you know, and getting up to
upwards of a 10,000 fine. So the, the, you can have data and you can go to your, your
communication device, if you're one of the two billion lucky winners. Or you, I mean, there,
there we are, it's my, there's my bubble, mental bubble. But my idea being, you know, how, is it,
the, do we gain more by interacting more on the human level? Or anyway, it's point of application
is the concept. Yeah, for sure. And especially that one that, that seems to be a big one that we
haven't made a good decision on. Or, you know, can't come to senses.
Engaging stories, I wonder, I suppose. Okay, well, it has to be personal, isn't it?
I'm just wondering, like, idea. So I thought about climate change for a long time as being,
I say, so context, why am I here? I could include, well, just for our, for this conversation,
if it is such a thing. So I've got into tech. Now I'll do that in an introduction. I will include
that. I guess, what's my question? I'll go and carry on with what I was doing. And if I think
of some question to us, I'll return. Happy to respond though. Hello, time for happy new year
and greetings to Myanmar and Cocoa Islands, Yangon, Nappy, Dal, Mandalay, and Phantom. Excuse me?
I guess the greetings relate to the new year sweeping the planet.
Yes, if you look at the link on HVR site for the show notes, Etherpad, you'll see all the time
breakups. Howdy, mate. Hey, y'all. Hello.
When I enabled push to talk in the configuration, there was no audio from me. I had to switch to
continuous and then use the mute mute, which you call it, the button that's icon button.
So I need to mute myself. I use my mute key a lot, but I don't use continuous,
I use voice activity. I'll try that. Now for me, I think voice activity wouldn't work.
Can you hear this? Yeah. Okay, thanks. I've got server noise in the battle. I'm sitting in a cupboard
with a server, so I'm mute. Oh, you know, send out greetings and happy new year to Bangladesh,
some regions of Russia, and for more, Tahaka, Almaty, Biscayne, and Dupute. I remind everybody to
post their show notes in the Etherpad document. Happy new year to all those places.
Do people in the lounge receive all channel chats and transmissions? I don't know if you want,
I can go there to check. I could do so. I just see a message from Archive to the people in the
lounge. I'm not sure. John KT4KB was here before, but I think he missed, might have missed the message.
They might, I don't know if they arrived for some of the, is that the lounge for this channel,
or the lounge for all these other titles I see? I think it's just a default lounge where you come in.
For example, if you get booted out of the server, you might end up going back there if you reconnect.
Well, I see. It's just to see, you know, I don't understand, I'm not familiar with Mumble and this
server. I see a list of other, you know, Boston Brewins, the Tekegee, Candies are there,
sort of subdivisions on that right hand panel. I don't need to do a thing, or maybe it would be,
yeah, so I'm not familiar. I guess someone, I don't know if we have a caretaker.
It might be Kate Wissroom. They wish are you admin on the server?
I'll just go there and ask. Maybe no one is talking.
Yes. I think Tony H was speaking. No, no, no, that's me.
My name's Dan, one of Spoons. If you look on, can you see a right hand panel with a,
a blue, a blue icon showing personal. Oh, yeah, I've got it now. I've got, I've got you,
I couldn't see it for a minute. And it's time to walk in Russia into the new year.
Getting a lot of echo. So what's happening in your end? You're very low, Toget.
Is that better? Can you hear me clearer now? Oh, yeah.
Well, there's a bit of crackle, but you're a lot louder and easier to,
I'm just going to go and see if any of the Mink Cass crew want to join us. Cool.
You had to love a movie that was about all these cell phones flying out of people's hands and
attacking. So what's this just watch? It was called 2.0. I put the link in the chat. Yeah,
no, I've just gone to the page. So is this a movie streaming site or does it just give you the
details of the shows? It was the link I found a while back. It allows you to find on Roku
different channels that are playing a movie. If I happen to see that one pop up in there,
and it looks so bad, I had to watch it. Was this a Bollywood movie? Oh, yeah.
Just watch the preview from it. I watched the trailer, yeah. Let's have a look.
Yo, in bed. Welcome back to our vinyl. I'm trying to make it stick.
I guess I have some Russians around. I just heard fireworks outside.
They've been setting off fireworks here for the last hour and they still another nearly five
hours before it's New Year. That's it's Russians for sure. They're not too drunk to know when
the New Year's Eve actually is so they just make a large window of fireworks. So for all of you
over in the UK, are you doing a countdown to Brexit now? No, no, no, we're doing a countdown to
New Year. It's New Year in four hours, 50. It's 1910 UK time at the moment. Yeah, I'm trying to
plan one. I've got both the Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit, the extended versions. Oh, yeah.
So I'm planning on doing like a weekend where I lock myself in and watch them all through.
Yeah, if you've gotten those, watch the Hobbit, and then Lord of the Rings.
Well, I had this set before and I'd loaned them out to a person and they
sort of disappeared. So for Christmas, my family decided to give me a replacement with the
extended version. Yeah, the extended, the Lord of the Rings, they cut the books down heavily
to fit them into the movies and then in the Hobbit, they extended the book so much to make it into
more movies. Yeah, yeah, the idea of loads of stuff. What's his name, the elf character? He
doesn't appear in the book at all. You mean they took an artistic license with the movie?
Oh, just a tad. Just a tad. I find the Hobbit movies unsufferable. Insufferable?
Something like that. You just got to separate them from the book because I really like the book.
So one of those times when I actually read the book before watching the movie,
I actually remember I was I was right now in a ten and they we've got a programme in this
country called Book at Bedtime and they serialised the Hobbit on Book at Bedtime and I'll remember
listening to it. There's another book. Cool. Yeah, the only one I've got is the Harry Potter books
and I have that same movies. Read the books before the movies. The movies are horrible if you
don't have the background from the books. Yeah, yeah, I read the Hobbit when I was about 17.
It's not the Hobbit, the loader rings when I was about 17. I read the first and half of the
second and then I couldn't finish. It's just got too boring at some point. I have both the books
lying around the house somewhere so I really should read them. Well, if you just watch the movies,
Harry Potter seems like a spoiled brat that just happens to get into a lot of trouble.
Isn't he though? The books do a much better job of showing the problems he went through.
Now what I'd love to see them do is to go back and write a series of books
of the foundations of Hogwarts. Yeah, that's cool. The figure they could do at least a series of
four books, one from each of the founders, point of view and all leading up into it.
Yeah, and J.K. Rowling does have a good history of giving us details after the fact.
And that never caused any trouble? No, none at all.
Well, not identity takers from my Mintcast crew to come and join us.
Oh, Ken's just turned up. Hello. Hello, Ken. Welcome, Ken.
Yeah. Welcome back, Mr. Faller. How are you all doing now?
Not too bad. I'm having some coffee before handing out.
I just decided to join on before I fell asleep, and I just started to fall asleep on the sofa.
Yeah, same here.
No, well, I wasn't sitting there that day. It's only two, 15 here.
Tony, didn't you have a voice activation?
I've got voice activation, yeah, but I've got my headphones on, so I'm not to the echo.
No, no, no, but you might start snoring at some point.
I'll use my mute key. It might be entertaining, just saying.
I can do that when I'm not asleep.
I was trying to recruit a new host this afternoon, Ken.
Excellent. Well done, you. Yeah, I can't remember if he's still here.
But it was someone who was here who hasn't actually submitted the show yet, and
didn't know how to go about it. So I just talked to him about just tell his tech story.
I think that's me actually. Was it you? Was it? Yeah.
So now you've got the man himself who can tell you who are we in the show now, you see?
Ah, I know. Only if he promised us to do us.
Ken, I still feel guilty. I promised you a show a couple of years ago, and I still haven't recorded it.
I know that. That's not a lot of us.
No tea time. I did get one in recently, but I still haven't got given him the one I promised.
That matter is not a joke. It took me 10 years to do the satellite episode.
Yeah, I suppose with the new year coming up, I'll have to get me at least one show in in the next few weeks.
Yeah, 260 new slots available. I do all my dealers.
Oh, okay, sent in the Lord. He must have been piling them up.
He's going to have a look at the queue. I could always thread this thing and record it as a show.
So long as this creative commons, I'm fine with that.
I saw that page and went. It's good. It's a very clever.
All right, should put that link into the notes.
See, 14 days to the to the next gap currently available. Right, it says 13, but it's the,
yeah, I suppose it is 13. Yeah, that's the hump. Always looking for shows.
Something we've never managed to fix getting enough horse.
Well, you must admit the new year show does generate shows because it was me talking about the
cars that generated the car series that I did the model series. And it was the new year show
that got a hook up on. And we got a lot of shows from him to be told.
Although they stole me interview opportunities last year because everything got cancelled.
Yeah, wait, wait, you're saying that if I join the show, I might get tricked into doing another
episode. Yeah, tricked, tricked is such a rude word. Yeah, I don't think
we trick anywhere. We just tell it. You tell you, you, you are with the show.
Oh, you're going to do what?
You could keep track of all the shows, people owe you and then every month remind them.
No, no, the list is too long. And then I'll be getting too much spam myself.
Giant Excel spent cheap. I'm the worst. Well, I'm not the worst. The worst is probably
Dave Morris because I keep getting him to. He has a database and I was shows that he
I'm just a GitHub repository where I are a Git repository where I keep my list of shows that I'm
working on. Yeah, I just have a directory. I still wish for that day when everyone who
listens puts a show in and then you'd have shows back to up for like 10 years.
Yeah, good look at that. I'm 97 shows in the in working progress at the moment.
97. Wow. Yep. I have a brain idea for two. Well, if he says, if you mention them,
then you owe me a show. Yeah, I'm not going to do that.
Too scared. Too scared. I still wish for the day when I have an idea for a show and I just
do it and submit it. Yeah. And just switch your Dacity on. Start talking and submit it.
Yep. I bet. I think that last one I did got posted.
Which is basically why I used to this lot. I always find some convoluted way of recording it,
though. Audacity would be too simple. Audacity is one of the softwares. It's like
really steep learning curve, but I guess once you get it, it's not that bad.
It's so bad. We've got a few shows on how to use Audacity, just bare minimum.
But you don't even need to do that. You just go press record and your Android phone or whatever
yeah, and then go share email to admin. Can you show off for not to prefer to go? Yeah,
you can just go to the upload page and just fill it out from there. Oh, you mean you don't
live stream at the download of YouTube download and strip it over into an MP3 with an FFM
You could do that. Yeah, and you could do a show about to do that.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. But there was a guy laying out showing it one time on the can. Yeah.
There's this Mr. Gadget used to use this quite a lot, but then those, I think they
personally was paying for or they service stopped that was providing. All right, all right,
but it's easier to record a show now on your mobile phone. Most people have a mobile phone.
Yeah, just press record and then go to the website and upload that file.
Happy new year, everyone. Happy new year. I'm going to drop off until midnight, I think.
I'll pop back in. I've got a bit of a headache. I think I've survived that long. So,
happy new year again. I'll be around tomorrow anyway. So I suspect this is going to be a long one.
So I'll catch up with you tomorrow. All right, I'll catch you up with you tomorrow. Bye.
Bye. Happy new year, Tony. Happy new year. I thought people were talking over me, but I
forgot I switched my mic and put. So where were you based, aren't you? I love North of Chicago,
about an hour. All right, okay. Oh, Andy, you're not coming off the freeway there and
Andy, damn, damn, secure. Chicago, when I was traveling between Minneapolis and Akron,
found myself in a not too, so, really, it's district. Luckily, I managed to get back on the freeway.
No, I stay away from there, especially it's a high population area with the COVID. Yeah.
We're on a stay-at-home order at the moment, went into it today. I think they suggest we stay at home,
but I'm not quite sure lately. I haven't looked at the website for it.
Are you on the lake? About an hour and a half north of where the lake is.
Have you got snow at the moment? I hope we got a bit of snow and it was nice and crystallized
after it ended up stopping. All right, it froze, did it? Yeah. Yeah, we've had a
smattering of hail over last night that froze up. That wasn't very pleasant this morning on the road
until it melted off. No, the dog hates it too. She kind of, she's a tiny one, so she has a
trouble with the icy snow. Oh, yeah. Oh, that you, Joe, in there? Is Joe in there? I've just noticed
someone called Joe, I'm just wondering if it's Mintcast, Joe. I believe so. Yeah,
I shall go and give him a nudge. I was trying to get his attention because he got me kind of,
oh, turn on to, what is it? X to go. Have you heard about that program? I've heard of X to go.
I'm not to use it. He keeps mentioning it on the lug cast. Yeah. He mentioned it a few times in
Mintcast as well. All right. Oh, fireworks going off again. Fireworks are legal around here,
so you don't hear too many of them actually. Supplies of firework. Best fireworks. This
fireworks display I saw was over at what a house. And while we were setting off the fireworks,
a police officer came up sat there watching the whole thing. And when we were done, he comes up
he goes, are you out of fireworks? We go, yeah, he goes, well, good, because I was going to have to
ask you to stop because you're not legal. Oh, just all dangerous flyer. Crispy creams got a special
going on their donuts for the next two days. Oh, yeah. Can't we do him with that? I have something
like it's like something sweet. I don't even know what to call it. It's called Babaka, I think,
is how you pronounce it. It's really interesting kind of reminds me of a donut.
One's too many and a thousand is not enough. I stay clear. Crispy cream hot glazed right off
the press. It's just sugar and air. You can inhale them. Yeah. Would play hell with my blood sugar.
I won't tell your doctor. Of course, that would mean I'd have to spend extra time with the gym,
right? Of course. I can't do that at the moment because they're all shut.
Oh, the one near here, you can call and make an appointment with them. They only allow a certain
amount of people in at a time. And so you got to like book it a couple of days in advance.
Yeah, that was the case with us until midnight when we went into the stay-at-home order and all the
gyms had to close. I think all the lockdowns are doing is just slowing how fast it spreads. It
doesn't actually stop it and it doesn't really stop people from getting it. It just slows it down.
Yeah, which is what we need at the moment. We need it to slow down because all our hospitals are
getting full. Yeah. Now, for the vaccines in the UK, is that a conditional approval like here in
the US or is that a full approval that they did? For the Oxford one, it's a full approval.
We've got the AstraZeneca one, which was approved a few weeks ago, and now we've got the Oxford one.
I thought the AstraZeneca and Oxford were the same one. Oh, the Pfizer there was approved.
It was the Pfizer one, yeah. Sorry, I can't stop.
Now, the AstraZeneca one, the X-Prazenica Oxford is a traditional vaccine. I'm not sure about that
Pfizer one. I'm a bit concerned about that mRNA. This is the first time they're using it in a human.
Oh, I thought the Oxford one was, they were talking about it in the news tonight,
and they were saying it's based on some primate virus. Yeah, it's, it's basically modified
off from what I understand that some variation of a monkey virus. Yeah, but it's a traditional
inoculation for it. Oh, yeah. The Pfizer one that they're doing, both the Pfizer and the Moderna,
they're using what they call mRNA. Basically, it's trying to tell your body to go ahead and put
this, put it into gear to defend, but it's something that hasn't been done before.
A little bit worried about the long-term effects. Yeah, this next Chinese one was a dead virus.
Yeah, it's definitely made the holidays challenging. This is the first time in, as long as I
remember, that we haven't got to see my wife's family for Christmas. Same here. Yeah, we normally go
up to Scotland to see my wife's family either around Christmas or around Hogmanay.
Now, with Brexit taking effect, when you do go back up to Scotland, are you going to have to have
passports for that? No, Scotland's still partly UK. I thought there was something, or was it
ironed? There was something different with the trade zone because part was going and part
wasn't going, I thought. Not Ireland, as far as customs union, they're staying in the customs
union. So, any trade between Northern Ireland and mainland UK has to have the same paperwork as
if it was going to direct to your coming direct from Europe and vice versa. So, if we send
in stuff from mainland UK to Northern Ireland, it has to have the same customs paperwork as it
would have to go the other way across to France and the rest of Europe because they're maintaining
the single customs union. And that's to maintain the open border between Southern and Northern Ireland,
which is all part of the peace treaty that they came up with to end the violence.
Yeah, at some point when normal travel gets resumed, I want to see about taking my wife
over to England there for a tour of castles and historic sites. Oh brilliant. So far, her only
trip in her life outside of the country was a trip to Canada. Yeah, it's amazing how many people
in the states have never left the states, but there again, you've got 50 countries in your one
country, aren't you, sir? You've got plenty of places to explore. I grew up as a military
brat and spent time over in Europe for a while. Yeah. You lived in Italy. That was a blast.
I think there's a lot of our countries are boring as hell. The polar world is a Wisconsin,
or not Wisconsin, North Dakota, South Dakota, those areas, Midwest. There's going to be interesting
countries. It has had to be out there for a few business trips. Well, it's weird with driving
through there and seeing all the windmills. Yeah, they do do a lot of that, don't they?
Yeah, flying over that area, looking down, you'll see this giant area of farmland with,
and then like a clump of trees with a house in the middle of it where the guy was.
Kind of crazy to see people who, you know, live on farms because I've never been really around that.
I can never imagine doing that. That's the thing about the states. So you've got such vast
areas of the open land and wilderness and stuff. It's amazing.
We're on Matt in North Carolina. I've got a short drive one direction. I can get down to the beach
and go out in the water now and have fun. And then a few hours the other direction you're
up in the mountains and snow and having a blast up there. It looks like Greenland's only had 27 COVID
cases. Lucky bastards. We don't understand even, and Artica's had COVID cases now. There's
no place it's untouched. And Artica is not on the map. I'm looking at here because it's like
map made to look out. Yeah, no, it's not made to look for COVID stuff. No one really thought,
hey, we should probably put an Artica in the map that needs to show us cases of a disease because,
well, no one gets diseases in Artica, but it's so wrong. Maybe you're cold.
Anywhere in the world can get diseases. Unless you're in Washington, D.C., all the hot air kills
everything. We miss saying happy new year to Kabul. Yeah, I hope that one of them I missed it too.
Coming up, Dubai next. Just China? Dubai? No, Dubai is in the middle of the Arab countries.
I was thinking Shanghai. Isn't Dubai the got a development out there that looks like a palm leaf
in the middle of the water? Yeah, they created a big development. They reclaim some of the sea. Yeah.
That would be great until we get rising sea levels. Well, if the water rises enough, then the
rally area that I'm at will become oceanfront property. Yeah, it's pretty much the same for me. I'm
only a mile from the beach. I got a good 20 feet on the sea level. I'm good for a while.
I'd probably be dead before then. If your house gets swallowed by the ocean, you can come live here.
Pardon? If your house gets swallowed by the ocean, you can come live here.
It's okay. When y'all stone goes, it's going to make all this a move point. What was that movie with
the... I can't remember his name, yeah. The one they did where they were all living on the sea.
Waterworld. That was horrible. Yeah, it's a horrible movie, but
you know, it's starting to look like it could happen now.
Yeah, let me be surprised. We've got what, a few hundred years until the sea levels have
been up to small, some actual countries. Yeah. Well, some island nations even less than that, I think.
Oh, yeah. Some of the the moldeaves and places like that that are very low line islands. They'll
go very quickly. Yeah. There are any crazy headlines I've missed. Ain't quite catch that.
Are there any, yeah, crazy headlines I've missed since I left this morning?
Crazy headlines. Yeah, like, sorry, gone. Oh, it was just a, yeah, like, I'm just in case you missed it.
No, I'm not, most of our news has been about Brexit and COVID, so I haven't heard much else.
Oh, yeah. I haven't heard what your, what your glorious lead has been up to today.
I don't even want to know. I think the more major one in our news right now is the
Nashville bombing. Oh, yeah, that was that was horrible.
From the sounds of it, the guy when he set off the van didn't really want people to get
hurt, so he had that countdown warning. Oh, so he actually placed the warning? Yeah, a few
minutes before it went off, he had a speaker's telling people to get out of the area that there's
going to be an explosion and, you know, basically did a countdown for that. And then he started
playing some song called downtown right as it was detonating. And then it came out in the news
yesterday that apparently the police had been in his house in 2019 last year because his girlfriend
had turned him in for bomb making in the RV. They came to talk to him and he refused to talk to him
and they just left. Just some casual bomb making nothing, nothing crazy, you know. Let's just
ignore this dude. I'm sure he's fine. Yeah, apparently Google Earth has a picture of his house with
the RV in his yard. Oh, my gosh. To ease. Did they ever say how many people got hurt and if anyone
got killed from that, I never got a good number. Well, I know he died in the explosion. They've
confirmed that from the DNA. I thought a few people got injured, but I don't know if any of them got
killed. Yeah, people got injured, but I am sure of any fatalities. That's good.
From the sounds of it, they haven't found official motives or anything, but it sounded like
this may have been his retirement playing. Yes, it's quite the literal sense of going out with a bang.
You know, one of his neighbors said they had talked to him just a couple of days before Christmas. They
had stopped by and saw him by the mailbox and asked him how his Christmas was going. The guy says,
the world won't forgive me for what's going to happen. Wow. Geez. The man really was not very
secretive about what he was doing, Lizzie. Best way to get away with something is do it in plain sight
and act like you're supposed to be doing it. Yeah, that's one thing. Yeah, sounds like a pen test
thing. Talk, you know, do you know, or something like that? Something he would say, just walk into the
building of the clipboard or whatever. I always find this so interesting, because physical penetration
testing is, I mean, I don't know much about it, obviously, but just looking at some talks on it,
like they've gone or whatever, that's just an amazing job to have. Yeah, I've got a friend in the UK,
that's what he does for a living. I think one of the neatest pen testing
once I saw was the guy who was hired by a bank to test the security there. He had broken
completely into the servers on the first day and less than an hour. All he did was post a bunch of
USB drives with Trojans on it in the parking lot. And they had a VP pick up one of these drives,
walk in and plug it into his computer. What? I heard one where the guy broke into the wrong
bank. That was a car cost service, not a show. Back in 2001, right before the first.com bubble burst,
there was a company that thought they had done the ultimate non-line security. So they posted
information about their system and challenged people to break in. They said the person who,
first person who can get this file off of the route of the hard drive, they had a, it was like a
Lamborghini or something that they were going to give to them. Got busted the first day by two guys who
took a pickup truck, drove it into the building, ripped the drive out, copied the file off,
and gave it to them. And they couldn't even be prosecuted because they were invited to do it.
Yeah, yeah. That is, yeah, that's probably the best I've heard it so far. It's not even
fantastic. That's just like smart thinking. Yeah, I had a data center. I was in charge of for a while
sitting in my office on the fourth floor had to get through two levels of security to get
up to where I was. And I turned around and there's a police officer standing there. And he goes,
we're looking for, we're looking for so-and-so. And it's like, how did you get up here?
People just let him through without, he came in in uniform. They let him through, assuming he
was had a legal reason to be there and just bypassed all our security. She hasn't asked.
Yeah, yeah, so in a while, it was just a clipboard in their hands. I probably wouldn't question
their authority too much, but knowing what I know, I wouldn't just let them pass. It's always the
thing that makes you look authoritative is having a clipboard, a clipboard or a, you know, the
hive is just the best. Many years ago in my high school days, a friend and I were bored
one afternoon. We had worked at a local grocery store in Virginia Beach and decided to test
to see how people respond to different situations. So we took our little, uh,
smocker, little uniform from work, went into another branch of the grocery store and just started
working there. Didn't clock in, didn't talk to anybody. After about a half hour, one of the
managers came up to me and said, do you work here? And I said, no, they said, okay, and they went
back on. The manager who's supposed to be tracking these things didn't care. Oh, here's a good one
for you. I just saw a headline from one of the new services that says, don't shoot guns at midnight
to celebrate New Year's police warn and offer $500 for tips leading to arrest. Beware dumb.
Yeah, I got a neighbor that has a gun range of live out in the county. I got a neighbor who's
got a gun range. And so I'm expecting in a little while they're going to be out there shooting off
like crazy. Do you want a gun range? I guess that's different, but I mean midnight's still pretty bad.
The only side effect of having a gun range nearby is gunfire doesn't faze me.
Yeah, happy New Year's to Dubai. It was about 15 seconds ago.
So you're saying Dubai said goodbye to 2020? Absolutely.
Looks like a gas car, Horn of Africa, most of Georgia. Oh, no, not in a good part of Russia.
I could put that movie on. I want movie. Penguin's a madagascar.
Ah, that would be good to watch when the madagascar turns to New Year's.
I was a times I went off, guys. Sorry about that. It's not Managed Car there.
Oh, well, I guess I can't watch it.
What do you do with madagascar?
Now, one of the other set of movies I got for Christmas was the original Battlestar Galactica series.
That sounds good. Guys, I've got that here as well.
I also keep meaning to get back into it, but I'm in heroes right now.
And fortunately, a lot of the stuff that they're releasing now, they've edited and modified it.
Trying to find a copy of the original ET, not the one that they distribute now.
It's like trying to find an original copy of the Blade Runner because there's been so many
different directors cuts. It's impossible.
Well, the original ET, when it came out, they had the astronauts coming into the house with guns.
And when they re-released it now, they've taken, they modified it, and they've edited to walk
Ketakis and set a guns. That's an interesting edit.
Make it more kid-friendly.
But that was part of what was some of the contrast at the time, is
here are come these astronauts in with carrying guns.
Lose the something with the white wash.
Yeah, yeah.
That'd be like taking out the clip of Alex Guinness trying to save the bridge
bridge over the river Kwai when the commandos come to blow it up.
Well, someone raises an interesting question.
Wait, do we have to be like, you know, kid-friendly like with language or?
That was totally related to not this, but I'm just asking now, because in the
in the podcaster, this show, I mean, not ET.
Sorry, I missed what you were asking.
Fast new news here, do we have to be like kid-friendly with language or what?
We try to be, because it does go out as a show.
But I think it usually gets a non-family-friendly thing on
that when it goes out as an HPR show, just in case.
Okay, I'll make sure to be a wholesome, then, for the kids.
Although considering some of the topics we talk about, it's not very family-friendly,
you know, young person-friendly, anyway.
Yeah, I don't really know how many people young and after that there
be an issue watch this show, but, you know, just in case.
Now, when they edit this for putting it in there, are they manually deleting all the blank spaces?
Or do they use some sort of script that automatically-
Use audacity, or audacity takes it out automatically.
Oh, I haven't tried that in audacity yet.
Yeah, it's called truncate silence.
Ah, okay.
Do they allow all the time when we're editing the podcast for Mintcast,
and I do the editing for Disra Hoppers, and I do that as well.
Do they release this, like, new show is just one thing, or do they split it up at all?
No, the new year show gets split up into about five or six.
It depends how much audio comes out of it.
So it depends how much of long silence there are during the 26 hours plus.
But last year, I think it made six or seven episodes.
It'd be interesting if they split up, like, different topics into segments,
but I think they'll be waiting to work for anyone who's doing that.
Are you able to volunteer?
Oh, no.
I say, I don't, they don't edit it part of say.
I think mainly it's just chopping it up at a logical point and truncating the silence,
mainly, and maybe you're just in the levels a little bit,
but they don't do an awful lot of editing on it.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It would probably not be, like, two days, maybe even, like, three days of audio before silence.
As soon as.
Yeah, I was curious to see what sort of automated processing they were doing,
because for my, for the church I've been working with, I've been taking their live stream and
strip and cutting out the music and just posting the sermon as a podcast fee.
And currently I'm doing all that manually.
And I was trying to see if there was some way to automate that.
Well, that's to you is a powerful piece of care.
Yeah, well, that's what I do is I pull it up in audacity and I look for,
you can see the differences in the waveforms between it.
And then I just listen to it, find that spot where it switches from music to sermon and then
break there and delete the beginning, delete the end and say the whole thing out that way.
Yeah, you can, you can put labels on and then just split it at the labels.
I might have to play around and see what more I can do with audacity.
But using it for a while and just haven't really done much more than basic cut and paste.
Yeah, when I'm editing the audio for distra hoppers, as I'm going through it, I label it
so that I know where to put the transition music in.
When I come to actually producing the final final edit,
makes things a lot easier.
Yeah, for a while there, for doing the podcast feed for the church, what I was doing was I had
using a audacity to actually do the recording on a machine on site.
And then I had a bash script that was taking and uploading it to the file server,
had a script running on the file server that detected a new file and automatically updated
and posted the podcast feed.
It was working good and then I had tags and all in there and then Apple started adding more
tag requirements and all and I made a few changes to support it and then about a year ago,
they made a change to some of the requirements on iTunes so it wouldn't take the feed anymore.
So I ended up looking around and found anchor FM for doing the podcast hosting for for free.
So all you have to do is upload the file there.
Yeah, there are a few free hosting.
We use semishpr, we use archive.org to host the audio for MintCast and distra hoppers.
Yeah, like archive.
So I've got a little regular monthly contribution and give them just to help out with the hosting
costs. It's still cheaper than it would be if I was using a hosting service.
Yeah, I had a script that I was running using Google Drive and some automation tools or app tools
under Google. You could actually have ability podcast feed directly in Google Drive with the
links but Apple did not like the feed from that at all. The biggest problem is even though you
had to, you could do the link that worked for all the files. The Google Drive doesn't do the
some sort of reverse lookup or dynamic lookup that Apple wants in order to take the files from there.
Right. So I'm looking at trying a device repair that I haven't tried before on my daughter's phone.
Her screen is completely cracked but it looks like it's actually intact underneath.
I looked at what it was going to cost to replace the phone. It was like $275 to replace the screen.
It's $275 to get the screen repaired from any of the professional places to do it. Found a kit
where if you're not having to replace the screen just glass and it looks like it's just a glass on
this, you might be able to do it for 30 bucks. So I might have to see if I can do that and put
together notes for an episode out of it if I succeed. Go for it. It was like $270 to replace the
screen on it or instead of doing that I got the Pixel 4A. Not that much more. Yeah, I'm trying
to figure out what the phone I went next. Honestly, I don't know. I definitely want an Android
phone and over Apple entirely but I just don't know what. Well, the phone I'm currently using right
now is actually the original Pixel XL and the reason I got that one is I was able to reload it
with Lineage and I love Lineage on it. Being able to decoglify it seems to make the battery work
pretty decent on it. Yeah, I was running Lineage on my OnePlus one at one stage after this top
supporting it. Well, the phone she has with a broken screen is a Samsung 9 and I was looking
that does that is supported on Lineage. It's an official support on Lineage. So sorry,
Samsung S9. So I'm thinking if I can get the screen replaced on it, I'm going to use that as
my replacement phone and if not, it's the phone's already right off anyway. Yeah, right.
That was interesting sounding right there. There sounded like you had a fan blowing on your microphone.
He was on a railroad car heading down a tunnel about to crash. That's collators.
Yeah, for my after switch my phone over to Lineage, I'm running next cloud at the house
and I've got the phone configured up so everything syncs straight straight to there and
nothing's syncing to any of the Google servers now. We're doing their screen replacement.
Taj may be able to give you some tips. My phone's got a crack screen at some stage in the
next 12 months. I'm going to replace it. New years resolution. Fix your phone.
It's not worth it for what it cost me and it works perfectly well with the cracks.
The crack screen's not that bad. Doesn't make it unusable. Yeah, I don't think I would bother
with mine either. It's a little bit messed up but I can still use my phone.
Well, this phone I got from Josh who used to be a host on Mintcast, young Josh,
when I dropped me the other one and really smashed up the screen on that and that wasn't usable
because it had sharp shards on the surface and then about six months after he sold me this one
which is a setting down Huey Pro20. I dropped it and the screen cracked again.
And I've got it in the case. It just the case fell out and it fell on the glass.
Is that a wow, are you saying? Yeah, my wife loves those.
Yes, nice phone. I'm not sure about it being from China though.
Well, they're all from China. Yeah, they got that right.
That's right. Even apples made in China. I know that iPads are made in China and they have all
that aluminum dust that's killing the workers. Yeah, they're all either made in China or somewhere
around that region. What was that open source phone? Not the pine phone. There's another one
been seen recently. Was it the fair phone? The fair was not the fair phone. It's another one.
It was an open source one but one of the things is they had two versions. They had
like a $600 version and a $1,600 version and the $1,600 version was made in the US.
See if I can find that. I'm trying to think about what the duct says.
Librum phone? Yeah, probably is the Librum phone. Yeah, I think that's it.
That's the one where you have hardware switches for your mic, I believe so.
Yeah, it's a bit overpriced for the hardware though.
Yeah, they had two of the Librum 5 and the Librum 5 USA.
Let's see an operating system that only works on pixels. It's like really secure. Whatever.
GraphiOS I think. I was wrong on the price. It's almost 2000 for it for the US version.
Wow. Yeah, I think I'll take me 10 for a heart off for that.
Well, the thing is you can only cut down so much on tracking because your cell phone
still has to check in with towers with some sort of unique identifier.
Yeah, the only way to stop tracking is have a load of burn phones and switch them on once,
make one call and then throw them away and use the next one next time.
It's a bit expensive that. What, you can't afford to buy a new phone every day?
Don't think so. Instead of, you know, some sort of cheap phone on Ono, there's $200 a day,
not that bad, right? As my dad used to say, I'm a poor pensioner.
Alright, if I did it right, I added the link to the Librum 5 USA in the show notes.
Yeah, I wanted to look at this one thing about the graphino S. I wonder if that's like,
I've heard about it. I don't know if it's any good. If anyone knows anything about it,
graphino S for the pixel presence. Yeah, graphino S is a new one that's coming out and they're
deliberately trying to remove any reference to Google at all in there.
Linear just just remove the Google apps and it's tried to do work around for some of them.
It seems pretty interesting because, you know, I think it's a pretty good idea to not have any
Google on your phone. Yeah, well, like I said, I took mine. I've redid it to lineage and then I've
got it where it does all it's syncing against Next Cloud and that seems to work right.
Yeah, my host on Mintcast Mossies tried to de-google his life, but it's not easy.
I don't pretty well at it. I don't think I have to use Google Translate, really.
Yeah, I've been trying to use start page for my search engine. I know it's using Google on the
back end and I've been trying to use everything else for mapping and other things.
Matter of fact, the latest version of Next Cloud, they've got a really nice integration on
the mapping in there. I've been using a search. It's pretty interesting. It works so it's like it
aggregates a few different search engines and results indexes three. So it has like that go
in Google. I'd love to find a good open source distributed search engine to replace Google.
Sort of like you've got the tour network, but except for you could figure you could have
different people add their machine into share for searching and indexing. I've seen a few projects
out there, but nothing that's of really usable level yet. Yeah, I guess the real problem is
trying to do something like that distributed. The Google data centers has all the stuff with very
short access time between the servers. And if you're in a distributed network, it's going to
take a while to coordinate everything. Hard to compete with Google. They have so much
just the power. It's amazing how far these big technical companies have come in the last 15
years or so. I've been trying to remove most of the Google portions of my life ever since.
It seems like every time I got a service, I really start liking with them. They could
discontinue it. How many of you remember Google Reader? I've heard about it. I never used to use it,
but yeah, knew about it. Yeah, I'm actually now instead of Google Reader, I've got a self-hosted
TTRFS or TTRSS one that seems to work pretty good. I just use it's still Google, but I use feed
burner. That's for pushing RSS, not reading it for taking them. No, one of the features I like on
next cloud now, like I said, they've improved the mapping in there. It's being able to pull up all
my contacts on a map and have it see where they're all mapped out that way. Yeah.
And then with the photos, the photos being automatically uploaded, you can actually have the maps
in next cloud mapping out where you did your photos. Similar to what you do with some of the Google
services. I take pictures on my phone without the location data embedded, so.
Well, I don't mind having the location embedded if it's going to my servers. If it's going to
somebody else's server, I try to strip it out before I send it. Yeah, I just skip that and just
don't take any photos with that because there's just a lot of effort to do that if I'm sending
it to someone else. Yeah. Well, what's the next cloud client? Because I kept running out of space
on the phone from different videos and pictures going on there. So with the next cloud client,
you can have it where as soon as you take stuff, it will automatically upload it to your server
and then take it off your device. And that keeps me from running out of space from things.
I need to, I don't have next cloud setup at all. It's worth the effort. I need something more
than what I have because I don't really have anywhere to do it. I only have it's just a little
last proof that could happen. For a while, my next cloud server was at Lenovo T410 sitting behind
the TV in my living room. I do have an old Mac mini laying around. It doesn't take much as long
as you can load Linux on it. You should be able to run it. Yeah, I'll have to look into that.
Would make a good episode too. That's true. I'm not going to promise that one.
I've been meaning to document it the last several times I built one and I keep forgetting to write it up.
I do it all documented. If I don't do it, I won't document it. I write that down somewhere.
I want to put the notes up. I use syncs to the next cloud, but I just don't have that set of
obvious. Yeah, I've got notes and several other things syncing in there. What's great is first
thing I do when I set up a machine for me is I put in the next cloud client and start syncing
the stuff down and I've not lost any documents since I started that about 10 years ago. I started out
when it was still own cloud. Of course, own cloud still exists, but all the development is going on
the next cloud side. Yeah, I don't know much about self hosting software at all, but I'm definitely
interested in it because it seems like really cool idea. For the one I'm running right now, I've got
my son had upgraded his gaming machine at the house, so he had his old machine sitting there and
was trying to decide what to do it, so I snagged it. So I've got that loaded as my server. I'm using
no IP for doing 9 DNS lookups on the server and I've got an account with them. Got a domain
register there, and so once I set it up, I pretty much forget about the machine. Yeah, that sounds
a mixence to me. Got a few cron jobs that all automatically do the updates to it and reboot the
machine. I've got some cron jobs now that will automatically do the next cloud apps up app update,
so I know that every week they're getting their latest things on there, and then once you set it up,
like I said, I use it more than I maintain it anymore. That's good to hear. That makes it sound
not as daunting. Now, one of the features I have on it that I haven't really investigated is they
apparently now have something for ransomware protection. It'll detect that a lot of your files
are being encrypted and basically stop from storing those changes in there, but it's never really
work with it, so I don't know too much about it. That's pretty interesting. I've never heard
something like that before. They also have some social networking integration in there for some of
your open social networks. Again, I haven't messed with that portion of it yet either.
Did we miss Happy New Year for the IT Ron Roshat? That's fun. Shad.
We did. My fault. I was babbling on. Got you distracted.
Next ones must go. Right. I found a time and date.com has an easier way to gauge it against my
central time. I'm using the one Ken posted earlier on. I'll put the link in the
mumble. I think it's already in the units. It isn't in the show. Yeah. I just get confused by
those Zulu times. Is that what does that stands for? Yeah. Zulu is basically UCT and Greenish
meantime. Yeah, I forget who it is. Yeah, from what I understand, the Greenwich Observatory's
atomic clock out shut down a few years ago. Wasn't that, or was I mistaken? I couldn't tell you.
I'm not a proponent of that kind of knowledge. They tend to refer to UTC now. Or UCT.
We can blame all the time zones on the railroads. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, for that story.
Yeah, so that they could have reliable time tables. Now, if we could only get rid of the
daylight savings changes. Yeah, it's probably the most annoying things they have to have
a lot of time. Yeah, what's interesting is what's between the Northern and Southern Hemisphere.
There is some country. I was working with some countries since South America for a while.
And depending on daylight savings times and the differences and
adjustments between us, we could either be the same time or two hours different.
Yeah, time sucks.
Hey, did anybody see that the news article about Elon Musk wanting to catch the
the big rocket on the launch tower when it lands instead of having it landing gear on it?
Nope. Didn't see that. So apparently the plan is he's trying to keep their big heavy
lifter rocket. He's trying to keep from having landing gear on it. So they've got a
portion that holds it during launch. And the intention is to fly it back down to the launch pad
and have it catch back on those same things so they don't have to have landing gear on it.
And be able to launch again in just a matter of hours. Wow. See if I can find that real quick.
That's found it. Just posted it in there and I'll add it to the notes. Of course,
I guess the problems. If they mess up, not only do they lose the rocket, they lose the launch pad.
Yeah, right. I'm going to go. I find it painful to wear headphones after a while.
So I'll probably probably be tomorrow morning before I read you and say hi before everyone goes.
See you later. All right. Cheers. Have a good one.
See you later.
All right.
I just found a great little interesting thing. It's like a command line weather little thing.
You can curl the website and it brings out the weather in your terminal.
What's the length?
Yeah, I'm copying it here. I'll post it in the mumble. I don't know. I guess I'll put it in the
chin. It's... You seem to be missing that minor. I haven't seen them around here.
It's a 2041, right? For the UTC.
What do you find in UTC? It's 242 Centra.
Okay. Yeah. I found out on time and date.com. I'm then trying to put this into the,
what do you call it? Shinnies.
Etherpad? Yeah. Are you in the Midwest?
What? What are you in the Midwest?
No, I'm in the East Coast Florida.
Also, we write Claudio. I suppose so, yeah.
Yeah, he was in here earlier. Beliefies from Miami.
I've actually never been to Miami. I haven't lived here in my whole life. I am from the Midwest.
I've been near Chicago all my life. Definitely not a city person.
Yeah, cities are not, I think, more in like a slightly more rural area.
For the WTTR.info, I can't resolve hostname.
It's .info. I'm stupid. There we go. It's in the chinards.
Thank you. Thank you.
I have it. I just aliased it to, so I can run it in my command, out of my terminal.
I keep running a command link that comes from Windows, even though it's been five years.
Can never break that habit. I guess command line isn't wrong. It's just, you know, it's either or.
It just sounds a bit wrong to me, even though I know it's technically right.
We have a terminal preference.
No, not really. Whatever works.
My terminal preference is I wish to live.
Are you telling me there are terminals other than bash?
It's really not.
ZSH?
ZSH, but I usually use just bash. That's all I know.
Yeah, I think it's ZSH or ZSH, and I think it's like what? What is it called, fish?
Yeah, I think the United States is the only one that calls it ZSH. Everybody else calls it Z.
Yeah, I'm from America that I guess that's just a regional thing.
We're Americans. We're weird. What can we say?
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is, HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
