Episode: 3061
Title: HPR3061: Parental Controls With Mike Ivy
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3061/hpr3061.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:05:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 361 from Monday the 27th of April 2020.
Today's show is entitled Parental Controls with Mike Ivy. It is hosted by Operator
and is about 34 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
we talk about parental controls and IoT device.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
All right, so I'm here with Mike Ivy for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
And we're going to do this again because we did it last night.
And he's graciously letting us try this again
and we should be able to go through it a little bit quicker.
But where topic today is we're talking about a little bit about, like,
background and then we're going to talk about child protection monitoring.
What are we, what are we calling it?
Parental controls.
Parental controls, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So kind of to start off.
We said, you know, what's your kind of what's your background?
And how did you start and kind of who were your influences growing up?
And how you got into, you know, InfoSec and IT?
Yeah.
Yeah, so my background kind of started young age like most of us.
Family member built computer for us.
And I used to break it, you know, I would go in.
It was one of those 98.
Go in, you know, delete random things out of the registry and, you know,
just kind of tinker around and after taking it to the cousin for, you know,
three or four times, I asked him to show me how to reinstall the operating system
because basically that's what he was having to do every time I messed it up.
So from there, you know, I probably reinstalled it 100 or more times after learning
because, you know, it was fun.
I went on to purchase computers from like the thrift store, you know,
they had CRTs and mice and keyboard and towers that you could buy and, you know,
back then I didn't know much about like the different types of RAM or hard drive.
I was plugging stuff in and if it fit, if it, if the computer turned on,
then it was like, oh, cool, it works.
And that number is bigger, you know.
So like, where did you, did your parents give you like some allowance to buy stuff from thrift store
or did you do like side jobs or something or how did you?
Yeah.
So this was, I got a high school job.
And yeah, I don't even know how I found that computers were at the thrift store.
And maybe I just visited one and saw that in the back and said, oh, that's cool.
But yeah, I worked and would take some of my money and go and buy computer parts,
bring them home, put them together.
My, my mom was always surprised and impressed.
She was like, how do you know so much?
I don't know, I just ran around with it.
But yeah, from there, I had a friend of the family who showed some interest in me
and, you know, I really wanted to do some more stuff with computers.
So, you know, they kind of encouraged me.
And it took me kind of being in a job that I didn't really want to be in.
I wasn't happy.
I was just collecting a check.
And I, you know, kind of decided there.
I was like, I want to do something that I will enjoy.
You know, something that I can get paid and it can support my lifestyle.
But also, you know, that's kind of fun to me.
And, you know, I kind of circle back around and found my way back to technology and computers.
So, you know, back then, this is around like 2007,
eight plus certification.
That's like your way in the door getting past HR.
So, you know, I went, actually took a course, but I took a two week course pass,
both of the eight plus certification exams.
While doing those, or doing the testing or studying, sorry, I built my first computer from scratch,
bought the CPU motherboard, PSU, everything, put it together.
I actually thought that I was a failure because it didn't work the first time.
And I was like, oh man, I'm going to be a terrible computer person.
And luckily, I figured out I just didn't plug in the power for the CPU.
So, yeah, that kind of started.
Oh, like the little cable that plugs into the, um,
that plugs into the motherboard.
Yep.
Yep. I just, I didn't plug it in.
And of course, CPU is not powered up.
Computer just, you know, things spin up and nothing happens.
So, yeah, from there, I just kind of, you know, worked my way up.
I started off in, kind of network admin help desk.
Did some sys admin.
And then eventually made my way into a full security position where that's where I'm now.
So, yeah, that's pretty much it.
Yeah, and I mean, I will say, like I said,
out of all the people that I'm around kind of today and kind of growing up,
not really growing up, but being the past five years or so, I've known you.
You've been one of the ones that's like stayed super passionate.
I know when I first met you, I was like, hey, you know,
you seem really passionate about all this stuff.
Kind of be careful.
Don't like burn yourself out or, you know,
I have expected you to be burnt out by now.
Anyways, um,
but you still seem to be kind of going, going hard at it and, you know,
teaching yourself new things and all that.
So, which is pretty commendable.
And especially, you know, helping people out.
And, you know, we, we talked back and forth about stuff.
And we trade, trade, you know, trade notes and links and stuff from time to time,
which is, is fun to do.
Yeah.
But, um, yeah, I think the main idea was, um,
we kind of approached it from a platform perspective.
So, when we talked yesterday, I guess last night,
we started out with your Amazon thing,
which supports regular Android devices too, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
So, um, yeah, we talked about the Amazon free time app.
I'm a big fan.
So, my, my inspiration for this was started with my nieces and nephews.
I bought them some Android tablets and, you know,
I was looking for ways to lock it down.
It's funny because I bought the tablets, you know,
I found Amazon free time, which is a great tool to, you know,
kind of lock the kids into a kiosk mode.
It has content available based on the kids age.
So, when you go to set it up, you know,
it goes from like zero to two and three to four and upwards.
So, like, I want to say 10 years old.
But they've got books.
They've got games and they can browse the internet for a kit from the content.
Amazon kind of controls that they also give you the capability to
whitelist sites that they can access through it.
But, um, yeah, the first tablet for my niece.
Before I kind of mess with the free time,
I was just using the normal parental controls on the Amazon tab or on the tablet.
And, you know, I gave the tablet to my niece and maybe five minutes later,
I got a notification saying, hey, thanks for purchasing Sonic video game from Amazon.
And I was like, whoa, I thought I locked everything down.
Yeah, I didn't.
So, um, that kind of spawned the, you know, research and that's how I found the Amazon free time.
So, so that's great.
It works on Android iOS.
And, you know, it lets you see from a centralized point of view,
all the things that are done on that device, you know, books that are read or games that are played.
Um, just get that visibility.
And, um, you know, that that was one of the things that were important to me because,
you know, they do have the apps that you can install from like the Google Play Store.
They're like kids mode apps.
But, you know, it's like centralized or not centralized.
It's limited to that device.
You know, maybe you can back up the settings and restore it to another device,
but having something that's centrally managed, um, kind of like, you know,
for the enterprise and MDM solution.
Um, and giving you, you know, basic functionalities, it's really nice.
And, um, helps to just minimize the risk of the kids seeing stuff that maybe they're not ready for.
You know, eventually they're going to see it, but, um, you know,
give them some time and, and let them develop a little bit more before.
Yeah, and we talked about even doing simple stuff like I used to do with my roommate.
It's, I would lock his computer down so he couldn't basically install any software or anything.
And you mentioned you had done that with a family member where he had, you know,
put them in the kid bucket so that they wouldn't, you know, perk themselves basically.
Which is a pretty interesting kind of novel idea.
Um, I don't have that as much.
Um, I guess, you know, when Connor gets older, I might have to worry about it.
And like getting malware and stuff.
But I think, you know, my wife has gotten pretty good about not just running random things or keeping up to date and stuff.
And that doesn't really happen like the drive by downloads don't happen.
Drive by hacking stuff doesn't happen as much as it used to, but.
Yeah, so I was looking at the prices non Amazon numbers or non prime.
It's like something a month.
And then if you have prime, it's three dollars a month per person.
And then four or ninety nine per.
Or five per month for nine prime.
So we got a prime account for three bucks, I guess, per person.
Um, you can, um, you can get the, the free time thing.
So that's pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's pretty great.
And then, you know, moving over to the PC or, or just a desktop.
Um, I've been using the Microsoft family safety feature.
Which back when I started using in Windows seven, you had to install it and then configure it.
Now it comes baked into Windows 10.
Um, and that's really cool because again, you can centrally manage a lot on that device.
You know, you create your parent account and then you create a bunch of kids accounts.
But then you can, uh, you know, filter what websites they visit, you can.
Um, even have some control over apps, I, I didn't walk down applications, um, mostly just monitored them.
Um, but for my understanding, you can say, you know, don't allow them to use these applications.
Um, you know, and the kids account is very limited anyways.
They can't do any admin stuff.
But, um, you know, um, having that.
Oh, so like if, if they want to like,
install like an application or something, it'll, it'll keep that part of it locked down too.
Yep. Yeah.
Cool.
You do any of that.
Um, I want to say to install anything, uh, typically what I did was, you know,
I had a separate admin account and I would just switch that account and install the stuff.
But, um, yeah, it's really, you know, awesome pieces offer that Microsoft made for free.
Um, you can centrally manage it via logging into a live account.
Um, so you, you do have to have a lot of account or at work.com account.
Um, but then you can, you know, kind of see everything.
Um, I seem to remember, uh, if someone wanted to access a website,
you can actually allow that via the web interface.
So if you're away and they're trying to go to a site that actually is legitimate,
um, you can say, yeah, sure, allow them to that site.
Um, and that's really cool, you know, for, um, to be able to lock down and give permission to things as needed.
Yeah, we had our niece over and she had a tablet.
And, and she's like, oh, blah, blah, blah.
You know, it doesn't have internet.
I was like, what?
I was like, give me that thing.
I'll go robber to show you how to do internet.
And I had, I had open DNS enabled on it with like most of the stuff.
And I think I blocked social media, but I allowed, I think YouTube.
I knew I had to go in and, you know, white list a couple of domains to get YouTube unlocked.
But, um, you know, then she was talking about TikTok.
And I was like, I don't know, I don't even know anything about TikTok.
And I don't know how dangerous it is or whatever.
Um, so I just kept that block and she, you know, watched whatever videos and stuff with Connor and stuff like that.
And then I had mentioned, you know, that Connor was watching her use it.
And he managed to figure out how to unlock her device and like figure out whatever her four digit pin was to unlock the tablet and do whatever he wanted.
Which I thought was kind of, kind of hilarious.
So, but, you know, he's, he's, I've, you know, with the Amazon fire stick, you know, saying it came down.
And he had been recording, you know, trying to do the echo or whatever the Alexa thing.
And he was like, I had to look through a search history and it was like cars fast driving tracks cars, something exploding cars or whatever.
So, it was all these like things he was trying to search for on YouTube.
Um, but I did, I think I did enable in the fire stick.
There's like a, like filter, like it's like an adult filter content or something like that.
And I don't know if that's how effective that is.
But, you know, with all these different pieces of technology, it's really hard to know like what's effective and what's not.
Without like going through and testing it and trying to like, pen test yourself.
I pretend that you're a five year old or.
It's in the year kid, an adolescent kid trying to like get to whatever kids get to nowadays.
So, right, right.
And we, um, mentioned the Amazon free time actually works on the fire sticks.
So, you can install it and lock down that device so that, you know, the kids can only have access to whatever content.
You know, it's provided via Amazon or you can even allow some things.
So, um, that's a little bit better than the parental controls for the fire stick.
That gets really frustrating because you can walk.
You can make everything require a pen, even like launching an app to watch, you know, Netflix.
Okay.
That's, you know, another way just Amazon free time on the fire stick.
And, you know, let the kids go at it.
Cool, cool.
Yeah.
Let's see. We covered windows basically.
What's it? What's it called like windows family?
Family safety.
Yeah.
Which is now built in to windows.
Yeah.
Yeah. And then that's, I guess it's just a free, free service.
Yeah.
Man, it's through live.
All by Microsoft.
Well, I mean, they're defender, even windows defender has gotten pretty, you know,
everybody's to joke about defender way back.
But nowadays, they're getting a little bit better.
Yeah.
They're still, they're still, you know, obvious certain things that are always going to be not blocked by defender.
But in general, they're pretty much on top of it.
They even have stuff for like, you know, detecting ransomware, like detecting crypto lock crypto locker type of stuff.
And it'll be like, oh, well, this application's like trying to like, you know,
wrap 13, your files or something.
It would like warn you that there's trying, something's trying to like, you know, encrypt your files or whatever that,
you don't know about or that's like from a third party.
Yeah.
That's pretty much what windows covered, you know, Android basically covered.
I don't really think there's a big risk with like Chromecast.
I mean, I guess Chromecast has the same type of stuff that fired sticks do.
Well, Chromecast doesn't really have apps, right?
They just, it's just a streaming thing, right?
Whatever you cast to it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so that would be on whatever device you're casting from, blocking that down.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
You know, I haven't done much with Mac.
I know they have parental controls, but most of my family have, you know, has windows.
And then Linux, you know, I think you're only limited there by your imagination.
I was actually talking to a buddy and, you know, we thought of some neat ways of blocking Linux down.
You know, you could update the doing website filtering or just block sites completely,
maybe have some scripts that run on login and update like Etsy host and, you know,
you have your ad blocking via, you know, pie hole or you can actually even install that on the system.
It's locally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just, yeah.
There's no limit there, like I said, it's only based on your imagination and skills and scripting.
Yeah.
I don't know if any, mm-hmm.
Go ahead.
I was just saying, I don't know if any, you know, projects out that kind of automate that, make that easy to deploy just a little parental controls.
Actually, maybe that should be a project for me.
Well, I wouldn't be surprised if they had like a Linux distro that's like kid-friendly Linux distro with like a Fisher Price OS type of feel to it with like content filtering built in.
I wouldn't be surprised if somebody built some, maybe it's five years old now, but, you know, it all kind of stays the same.
But, you know, really at the network layer, you can pretty much safely use kind of open DNS and that'll block most of your bad stuff.
And then you start talking about like, you know, blocking social media and like white listings specific things within that within open DNS, but pretty much open DNS is going to help with help block most of that stuff.
So like a, you know, Linux box or Windows or whatever it would theory help with most of that.
What was the other thing?
About consoles, that was the one I didn't, I didn't think about, you know, they have a console and you know everything's got an app for it now.
So you got YouTube on consoles.
The regular we actually had a YouTube player in it and a browser.
So, you know, he could actually, in theory, if you could find it and knew where it was, he could use that to get to whatever he wanted to get to.
With like a Apple, he uses that a webkit stuff, old versions of webkit.
Yeah, my niece is always trying to social engineer me to unlock the web functionality on her Nintendo DS.
Because, you know, if I set it up, everything's going to be locked down parental controls.
I'm going to minimize, you know, internet access.
So every time, you know, I'm over or they come over here, she's like, hey, can you, you know, allow me to access, you know, this, this hidden layer.
No, no, no.
It's probably not worth it either because I know, you know, there's not a whole lot of people doing like multiplayer DS stuff, but I don't know how might be wrong.
Yeah, all of the avatar stuff is completely, you know, on the internet.
And that's the concern is, you know, I don't want my, you know, five year old niece talking to some random person on the DS or any of the gaming consoles.
So, some are easier to lock down than others, some don't even really have a way to lock it down.
So that's something to, you know, think about like the Xbox, I mean, to your point the other night, if you have an Xbox really, you are, you should be, you know, at the age where you can handle certain things.
Yeah, if you let your five, six, seven year old kid play on the Xbox and have access to it without any supervision, you know, there's a lot that they can get into there, you know, depending on gains and what they do.
So just something to think about, you know, we talked about the network.
So there's the network approach and then the, you know, on the device, parental controls approach, a lot of the modern wireless routers and just network devices have parental controls built in.
So you can do it at the network layer, you can layer it up and, you know, you talked about open DNS have that to block certain things and then with the network devices, you can say, hey, just cut the internet, you know, to this thing after a certain time or, you know, and turn it back on eight o'clock in the morning or whatever, if you want to have a little bit more control there.
Yeah, there it's it's something to think about and something I've been thinking about is, you know, how do we really protect.
You know, the young ones from certain things give them some time to develop and grow so that when they do get exposed because they will, you know, and you can't control everything.
Hopefully, they'll be ready. If not, you'd be ready to give them a to have that talk with them and explain things.
Yeah, you know, we were talking about like, you know, what do I, you know, what do I do about my child like doing resets or like bypassing security controls and it's like, well, you know, kind of, you know, you kind of said like global by that, you need to be able to have even before be able to be ready to have that talk if they're starting to do stuff like that anyways.
Yeah, like I had a DS that I had given 2DS is that I never bought one.
I acquired 2DS and I put the little hack card in there with a SD and filled it up with a bunch of games and stuff and I think when I gave it to my niece, I think it had one of those like Japanese dating apps on it.
Um, and I don't know how like glued or graphic it was, but it's all in Japanese. So I couldn't really play it anyways.
And then it had what she was playing was a grand theft auto on there, which was kind of funny, but not funny. And she was like nine or eight or something like that.
So it's like kind of animated violence at that point, but you know, I don't even know if her parents were even okay with that.
And then when she came over, you know, she had the tablet and I gave her the internet and then I was like, oh, well, that wasn't really my my decision to make.
You know, so I sent a message to, you know, my, I guess, brother and all or whatever and said, hey, you know, hey, you know, she's got this tablet and I gave her the internet, but I use open DNS and I block, you know, all social media and all the bad stuff.
And then I quite listed YouTube. So you could at least do YouTube and he didn't seem to be too concerned about, but you know, you made that point.
You know, you do whatever you want to the kids devices, but if they have like a cellular network or if they go to a friend's house, you know, eventually they're going to see something or like you said, you know, you're at a restaurant or something like that.
And the parents or somebody else's parent is bored or they just give you give the other kid their phone.
And the next thing, you know, they're, you know, on the internet doing whatever they want to do and they could run into something nasty.
I told that story about, you know, I niece, she was, I guess she was supposedly she was on like some math website or something.
And that Momo video got in theory of what she says injected into the site.
It wasn't just like her going to YouTube or something.
And then like everybody's flipping out about it and then it was like, oh, well, nothing really happened is just a hoax or whatever.
But I think, you know, the conspiracy theory person in me thinks that like somebody went around like 4chan or something trolled a bunch of websites at once to kind of get, you know, I don't know for whatever reason, get on the news or just annoy people.
She was like, she was like in tears and messed up for like quite a while to, to whatever in my little ones.
He's, you know, he watches like, what was it?
What was it?
Elmo and Grouchland and like the bad Grouch guy was like scared him.
So he's not not even ready for anything near that, that crazy.
Like he doesn't like the dark stuff or like, you know, we launched like the Lego whatever and he's, you know, kind of get intimidated by the bad, you know, bad stuff that happens in there.
And the dark stuff that's like even animated violence, he's not really desensitized enough, I guess, to watch any of that stuff.
Cool, cool.
I think it helps, helps me a lot helps me kind of, you know, some of that knowledge helps me get in front of it.
And, you know, right now we're just hiding the remote from him.
And like I said, if I forget, leave the remote down there, you know, we wake up and he's been downstairs watching Netflix or whatever for kind of how long.
I need to kind of get in front of that.
So if I do, you know, accidentally leave Cody running, I can figure out something with Cody because Cody doesn't need to be on the internet.
It just needs to like do updates and that's it.
Like it needs to download, you know, download the use net stuff and then that's it.
But so it doesn't need to be doing, it needs to connect it doesn't need to connect to any bad content.
But then there's movies in there that are like whatever.
I think he clicked a shark movie one morning and it was like somebody had downloaded people can request whatever they want to watch.
And somebody had downloaded that shark movie.
It was like, I don't know what and he watched a few seconds of it.
He's already been scared himself.
He's already skilled at scared himself so far.
But in general, I think that's pretty much it.
You know, in my experience, I haven't really experienced the content filtering stuff.
It's been more of like trying to keep friends and family from getting malware, which is a little different.
Because you want them to allow you want them to get you want them to get to content that's adult content.
But then you also don't want them to download crap from bad websites with malware on them and stuff.
It's a little bit different than doing personal controls.
But I think it's pretty much covers it.
Yeah, there's anything else we we talked about or you want to talk about.
Yeah, one of the kind of lessons that I learned from this was so you know I went through a hard end all of lockdown all of the devices that you know I set up or purchased for them as gifts.
But then, you know, they would ask their mom or their dad for their phones and their phones are not locked down, you know, so it's important to, you know, kind of be mindful of that.
Don't tell your kids what your passwords are, you know, my niece.
She knows everyone's password, of course, not mine, but she knows passwords and she will tell you the passwords if you ask her nicely.
She's often say, you want to know my mom's password for her phone because I know it.
No, don't do that. That's not good.
Let me tell you about passwords. And I think I finally get it through my family members to, you know, have better password practices.
Don't share with the kids. That is one of the nice things about the Amazon free time app is it does create a you profile for each kid.
So like you as a parent, you'll have your account.
It actually kind of replaced the UI for whatever Android device you're using.
But the kid can sign in to their own.
You can even put a pin on it, you know, but by default, there's no pin for the kids.
The kids can just select their icon and it'll take a man.
And in order for them to break out of that kiosk mode, they have to have a password account, which is an adult's account or a regular account.
So yeah, don't share passwords, especially with your kids, not even, you know, when your hands are full and you're like, just unlock my phone.
Don't do that. Yeah, yeah.
Good password practices early.
Yeah, I think that was, that was kind of an eye opener there.
Yeah, you know, whenever you, it's like any piece of technology or software you implement and then people start using it and you realize, you know, there's some misconfigurations or opportunities for kind of improvement.
But like, you know, even doing some stuff for work here, I noticed some machines that were kind of misconfigured and I was showing my son and showing him, you know, trying to figure out how, how they got this way and, you know, what the status of them are.
And he turns around and he's like, well, why would you, you know, why would you let somebody in your computer without a password?
I was like, that's a really good.
I'm all by itself. It's like, he's just like, that's crazy. Why would you let somebody in your computer without a password?
I'm like, that's exactly, and then, you know, I send an email and they reply back with pushback saying, well, we want it to be easy for people to get into these machines because, you know, they don't do IT and they don't do computers.
But I was like, all right, well, you know, you got to keep your house, you know, just leave your front door open just because it's easy to get into your house.
You can't leave your windows and doors open. You can't, you know, give copies to everybody of your key.
Like, just basic stuff. People wouldn't do to their house that they do, especially with work services and software that they don't, you know, they're like, oh, I don't care.
It's just worked like if some happens, it's not my fault or I don't care. It's not my device.
But, you know, just kind of instilling that into people and stuff. And password managers too. I can't, I can't get anybody to use them.
I can't give my mom to use them, you know, I don't know why. But then again, you know, parents and stuff like that, you know, non IT people don't really have a whole lot of logins to need a password manager.
But then again, write all their passwords are going to be the same password and even even my wife was like that.
You know, we started, you know, dating her after we got married. I said, look, you need to get a password manager. You need to change all your important passwords to not one of the three passwords that I know.
Yeah, so far I've been able to convince a few of my family members to use a password manager made it really easy for them.
I got the app on the phone, the browser plugins last past.
And my rule is if I find your password and any of the, you know, breaches, you have to change it.
Or if I can get your password, you have to change it.
It's kind of working, yeah.
Yeah, one other thing, something to think about is these devices, like even the Nintendo DS or the switch really aren't made for kids under the age of 13.
Even though they do have parental controls, there's, you know, the legal taxes says, hey, you have to be this old to really play with this device and if not get permission.
A lot of people don't really think about that and probably should because now you're, you know, giving your kid access to this technology that, you know, it's not really designed for them.
So that kind of is the reason why some of the parental controls aren't as great on all the devices, all the internet connected things.
You know, we were talking about like your TV, TV's got a browser, you know, if you have a smart TV, you know, or whatever your smart picture frame.
Yeah, smart, smart, anything with the browser just sounds gross to me.
Yeah, so, you know, that's something else to think about, you know, not all of this stuff is really made for kids or with kids in mind.
I mean, it kind of scares me just, you know, a lot of kids now are doing just watching Twitch and they'll spit, you know, their parents will be there and they'll be watching a specific person that I guess is, you know, I guess, okay, for the parents to watch.
But, you know, I have more than half of the stuff on Twitch has got language and fair amount of swearing and, you know, violence and stuff.
So I wouldn't let my kid or anybody lose on Twitch or anything like that.
Yeah, I think I read somewhere, someone said the internet was not designed for kids. It's not a safe place for kids.
You know, there's, you want to be careful.
Like I said, give them time, let them develop, you know, solely introduce them.
And then when they get to the point, give them the, you know, with great power comes great responsibility.
I speak because, you know, they're going to get exposed, but, you know, you do what you can to, like, to give them the tools they need to be ready for things.
Cool, cool, cool.
All right, that about, I think that about covers most of it.
Yeah.
Like, I appreciate you doing this for the second time.
But, you know, we might do, might do something else to do it more traditional, just interview, just talk about some hacker stories and whatnot.
It would be something we could do if you're, if you're interested.
Sounds like fun.
I think that's pretty much it.
Do you have any other questions you've done?
I think I'm done. That's it.
I think we're actually good. I'm going to hit the actual recording button.
Appreciate it, man.
All right.
Ladies, man, stay safe.
All right. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareAlive, 3.0 license.
