Episode: 3047
Title: HPR3047: The COVID-19 Work From Home Stream - Day 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3047/hpr3047.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:44:24

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,047 for Tuesday, 7 April 2020.
Today's show is entitled The COVID 19 Work From Home Stream, Day 1.
It is hosted by Thadj Sarah
and is about 41 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is.
A couple of HPR characters decide to spend some of their social distancing time being social.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
.
.
.
Hey what's up man?
How are we doing?
Pretty good. Just kind of getting through some work.
I've got to do a video tutorial in a little bit but trying to sort that out.
What are you doing in tutorial on?
A bunch of the teachers that we work with in the different schools are freaking out because they don't have a way to easily record their home computers and make lessons to where the software that the school typically uses on their computers at school
and they're not allowed to go to school so they're a lot of them are asking so I was going to do a video about using OBS to as a basic screen recorder.
And the only reason I'm picking that is because it's really universally works on everything.
Well nice.
It just happens to be pretty like intense when you first open it up. It kind of reminds me of Blender when you open it up in your like too many things.
So I figured a video tutorial would probably work the best.
Smart.
Yeah, you would think so.
So I wound up having to go to the grocery store last night to pick up some coffee medicine for my wife.
And I was thinking about you because when I got there, I felt like we're maybe a week away from Mad Max happening.
Yeah, I'm so lucky. I think today I'm not sure if it's just because it's a Wednesday, which is a relatively slow day to begin with or whether people are starting to take that whole social distancing thing seriously.
But it's relatively slow on you today.
Yeah, I went in and like I just kind of made a beeline for the cough medicine, which is off to one side.
But then I went around because there was tons of people checking out.
So I was like, I'm just going to go around and try to go through the use scan on the other side.
And I literally walked past the King Goods Isle. There was a person literally crying because there was nothing left on the shelves like zero.
And then I walked past the like the seafood meat counter and all the like the prepackaged stuff was gone.
All the like middle of the aisle cases were cleaned out and the department.
There was one Porsche muck that was standing in front of it and there were like 20 people standing there just yelling at him.
And I just was like, I feel so sorry for the guy. This is terrible.
Yeah, I'm lucky. I don't work in the grocery side because the brother was saying that there was a fish fight or paper towels was a Monday.
Hey, guys, there's this thing called, you know, just like rags. You can use those that that that covers that.
Besides, how many towels do you really need toilet paper or whatever?
That's how I was talking to Pokey the other day. Well, Pokey and Lyle both. We were on signal messaging each other back and forth.
And I was like, I'm sitting here with a bidet. I don't need toilet paper. I'm good. I can get clean without it.
There you go.
Like it's to the point where if I have to, we were talking about me going out of town.
Like it seems so uncivilized to just take paper and wipe back there until you hope that it's clean instead of like actually cleaning things.
That makes sense, actually. But for some reason, I feel like I would still just for peace of mind, want to like wipe once.
Number one to try it off. Number two, just to make sure that other water got everything.
Yeah, usually do. Like there's still like a clean like a drying wipe or at least there is one I do it.
And you know, the bidet is a good job. It's very rare that there's anything left over.
Um, just the amount of the amount less toilet paper that we use.
Like we didn't stock up or anything. We just bought like a package a week ago.
And like I have zero worries that we're going to run out anytime soon.
Yeah, we usually buy like big package anyway. And we did that.
Yeah, probably about a week ago Tuesday before things really hit. I mean, it wasn't until so it was like Tuesday night
that the governor of Massachusetts declared state of emergency.
And then it was like literally like 24. It was sometimes Tuesday. And then like Wednesday night, everything hit the fan here.
I mean, it was we went from, you know, normal, normal, normal to Wednesday night.
People went crazy and walking in Thursday morning.
What the hell happened the night before?
But I mean, that the big package of toilet because we got to be James, we get the big package of toilet paper.
And that's probably going to last us for at least a good month or so. Hopefully.
Yeah, I'm, I just, I also don't get it of all the things to hoard and style pile. Why toilet paper?
Like you think food? Maybe food might be a good idea or I don't understand why toilet paper became the thing.
I don't know, but the problem is the second it became a thing, it was a thing.
And I think that's why it almost became a thing. You know, it was, what do you mean you don't have, you don't have a stock pile of toilet paper.
So we have to get toilet paper because everybody else is getting the toilet paper. And then there's not going to be any toilet paper.
And then all of a sudden we're going to be stuck home quarantined at home and now you believe our homes. And we're not going to have toilet paper.
Sort of a self reinforcing cycle there.
Exactly.
Well, and it's like absolute 100% worst case scenario.
If I don't have toilet paper, like I still have water and some soap, I can make this work.
Like it's not going to be pretty, but I can make it work. I can't make food work.
I just need it.
Right.
The first thing that should have gone is like all of the canned goods.
Yeah, and they were pretty good until yesterday. Yesterday was the first time that I saw like all the canned goods gone.
Even like the really bad stuff that nobody wants to eat was gone. Like it was completely bare.
But we were talking on matrix today.
Like grocery stores are made for like a 30 day turnaround. And that's about it.
So it's like we just don't have a system designed for what we're going through.
The problem is actually just the supply chain to the warehouse.
So with us, the so like I said on it was like Wednesday night and all of a sudden hit.
And then Thursday it was Mayhem Friday was Mayhem Saturday was Mayhem.
And by the end of Saturday, the warehouse was just like, look, we are out.
We're trying to get trucks in here as fast as possible.
But it's, you know, everybody is in the same boat as we are.
So we're trying to get to where stuff to the warehouse.
And so on Saturday told us that we're not allowed to do orders anymore.
That we're supposed to just because we have they call it handheld ordering.
So it's kind of like a system that tries to generate a order using science.
Well, using math. So it tries to take like your previous to what it thinks you have on hand.
Well, you had what you did for business like this week last year because a lot of that.
I mean, a lot of that is just about the same every time.
And it takes what you did the like this day last week last year.
And yesterday's sales and then it tries to determine also what you have on hand inventory.
So what's the thing to try to generate order just to make it easier.
So you're not sitting down and ordering each and every item in my department.
It's it's produce. So it's each and every item in the department.
And because there's several thousand different items in my department.
So this this kind of cuts that way down.
But it said it.
What they said was because of the amount of orders and the how heavy of ordering that it's.
They got into the warehouse. They said we're not allowed to touch that at all.
So it's just supposed to run the way.
It's just supposed to protect what we need.
The problem is the system is not perfect.
And half the reason why we need to touch it in the first place is because on hand inventories.
Get all screwed up and it doesn't seem to want to work right.
And so we get to a point where what we have to do the manual side of this is we have to go in and fix the inventories of things.
To get the system to order the way we want it to order.
If they didn't, if they tell us that we can't touch anything, then it's just going to might be going to think that, you know, order.
A lot less actually than what we actually need and sometimes a lot more and stuff that we don't need.
And you know, it's just it screws up the entire process.
And, you know, especially in a like a produce department where you need to also take into account things like not every case of apples that comes in.
It's going to be 100% perfect from top to bottom.
I mean, a box gets bounced around enough that stuff inside of it.
I mean, you talk about apples, the bottom layer of a box of apples.
A lot of time you're taking, you know, you're pulling off half of it before it even makes it onto the shelf.
So I mean, and that's not getting taken to account when it tries to figure out it's on hand inventories.
So a lot of stories short, the warehouses got completely blown out on by Saturday.
I was told my order Sunday from Monday, well, I'm not allowed to touch it or do anything.
So whatever came in that days, what came in that day, same thing with the day before.
Today was the first day I was able to actually touch the order.
And for my understanding, it's going to be the only day for a while.
I can actually touch the order.
So I'm hoping that I've fixed enough of the inventories on things that going forward,
I'll be able to actually get some of the stuff, the product I actually need into the store.
And hopefully the warehouse can actually get caught up with everything.
Yeah, that sounds like a nightmare.
Oh, it is.
I will say the one thing that surprised, well, it surprised me in a way that it didn't surprise me is that I walked past produce.
Because I mean, that's usually we eat a lot of produce like that's the thing we do.
I just didn't need any right now.
And it looked fairly well stocked.
There's this run on food, but like there's all this food like here nobody wants.
Sometimes our food system boggles my mind.
I mean, it is more expensive to buy fresh food.
And I think that's part of the problem.
But yeah, it's just it boggles the mind that that's like literally somebody's in the aisle crying
because there's no canned goods, but like literally probably what you were going to buy is over here.
You just have to actually make it.
That's very true.
And I mean, I can't I don't know what the difference is through like the supply chain as to how come one thing is blown out versus another.
A lot of it comes down to whoever.
So there are people whose job who are at the warehouse whose job it is to order stuff for the warehouse.
So whether they just it's there's a much higher turnaround on produce than there is on like canned goods.
So I'm sure they probably order a certain number of canned goods into the warehouse.
And that's usually good enough for I don't know a month or like a couple of weeks.
So they don't even think about it.
While produce is one of those that they have to think about daily me just because of how perishable it is.
Yeah, I could see that being something that kind of gets picked into the calculus of it.
At the end of the day, I think we just like there was no backup plan for something like this happening, which is unfortunate in and of itself.
True.
And the thing that really starts to scare me though is I'm kind of stuck in a job where I told my boss this morning I looked at my right out of my go, look, you and I need to realize that we're basically going to get it.
Now whether we actually do or not is going to be, you know, just a random happenstance of chance at this point, you know, it's just it's we're we're going to get it because there are absolutely nothing there's nothing in place to help us.
There's nothing that we can do to, you know, we can't shut down at all and we can't set something up where we let them, you know, we have programs in place where they call it clicking collect where they purchased stuff online and we bring it out to their cars, but that system is down right now.
I think one because of just so many people wanted to use that, which wouldn't my opinion is by the same time I think they had a hard time keeping up with things because.
Good.
How's it going?
Hello, I think that hard time keeping up with stuff because one thing it's hard to fill an order when they have no idea like half the time that the stocks, the shelves are empty anyways.
And but there's there's no nothing in place to protect us, the people who work there, you know, I mean, and we're stuck because there's no we're not getting closed down.
We have to stay we have to remain open no matter what so we have to just kind of accept the fact that there's we're probably probably going to get it.
Yeah, I'm just being an education, I know I'm getting it eventually whether it's this first wave or when it comes back around it's going to happen, so I've just resigned myself to that.
That's what I was thinking like the whole because here they had they call it click list here. I don't know what would it is everywhere else, but like were you order your stuff and they bring it out to your car.
I've been terrified of using that just because I like I'm a control freak and I like to make sure I get what I want.
I don't think I've ever been more likely to use it than now.
The only things I've ever been concerned about them getting are, you know, produce or meat and, you know, being that meat is in short supply now, you only have to worry about produce.
I have used it a couple of times and it's worked really well.
Also, hi, hi, anyone listening. This is Lyle also known as X one one zero one.
I was going to say also known as something else, but I couldn't think of something else witty fast enough.
I might also respond to, hey, asshole. Hey, asshole.
Now, who did you use the pickup with?
So I live in in the Northeast. We have a store called Haniford and they're they're the ones who have it and I used that multiple times and was quite happy with it.
Oh, sister company. I work for stop and shop.
Apparently, like target head shut down there, you know, I'd pick up stuff to and I don't know.
In my opinion, it would make sense to just a clerks to have this available because this is going to save them a great deal.
Well, and you could especially if you have a dedicated team of people who are interacting with the public, like that lowers your tax service and you can do a lot more to protect those people specifically.
So I don't understand why you would do that because it just makes sense like use that as much as you can.
Right.
But of course all of this, I'm expecting common sense and that's not happening.
Like go walk to get the groceries, wash your hands, go talk to the people, wash your hands.
Look in the mirror, wash your hands. Here's gloves and a mask, like don't rub your face.
There was one piece of advice that I saw that I, I would, I'm not going to follow and that was that they suggested we'll shave the beards, not going to happen.
Did somebody really say that?
Yeah, I saw some CDC advice that say, you know, guys should shave their beards.
Yikes.
And my advice to them is to get bent.
I mean, if somebody would have said that, like when this first start, I may have done that.
Just because.
But you know too late now, I'm at home, if I'm going to get it, I've already got it.
It's about 10 years too late for me to shave my beard.
It's just part of my face now.
I, I've only seen one picture of you without a beard.
And it looked nothing like you.
So I get a legend.
Yes, I showed pictures of my wife and I from high school at prom to someone and their responses.
Who is that with your wife?
Yeah, I think those were the pictures you showed me.
Yes.
Sorry if I go quiet for a while.
I'm going to talk and eat my lunch at the same time.
That sounds good.
I should do that if I wasn't busy working.
I did do that.
It was delicious.
So Lyle, are you on work from home now?
I think you told me this.
We are on our company's dances currently.
We will support whatever decision you make.
Decision is staying home.
Absolutely.
Between the fact that my daughter who's had some respiratory issues all her life,
just with allergies, asthma stuff.
But enough that that's fragile and the social responsibility thing.
I'm going to stay right here.
I can see all of those things.
I'm really interested in what the long term impacts of this are going to be on various work from home policies
and the way IT departments are structured and just society in general.
I mean, this is going to have more than just quarantine period effects and I'm interested in what they are.
I think on one hand, they're very obviously showing some things that are against popular belief,
especially like you can work from home and you can be productive.
Things like that.
I also think that it could equally backfire and create a whole new set of bad things.
I did see it.
Like what?
I don't know.
Just the whole.
We don't.
I think there's a lot of things that are getting pointed out that may be sort of like,
I think David Graber is the guy that came up with the term bullshit jobs.
I think a lot of those are getting exposed right now.
And they are very key to sort of propping up our economy.
And if that gets realized, people may make those jobs go away.
But like I was saying, I saw a tweet that my wife sent me and it was like, it's kind of funny.
You notice that as soon as the people who actually do work can't work,
our entire economy falls apart.
So that's a good thing.
I think people realizing that is well worth it.
But I also think that there's a lot of people who don't do a whole lot and get paid a whole lot.
And that's not going to work out for them.
Like one of the things I'm very, very terrified in is that people are going to mistakenly assume
that because we can do work from homeschooling, that that's going to be a viable alternative
for a greater portion of the days of school.
And just knowing the research behind distance learning and how it's not nearly as effective,
that scares me because a lot of districts will take that and give people a lower wage for staying home
because they're struggling and they need to do something to reduce costs.
And I think that they'll see that and be like, oh, yeah, we can totally do this.
We did it for like two months back in the day in 2020.
That is a good point.
That is probably a lesson that should not be learned but probably will be.
Yeah, see, and that's what I mean.
Like I'm terrified that things that should not be lessons will be lessons
and the ones that should be lessons are not because all of it is inconvenient.
Or inconvenient, non-convenient, see, that's one of my teacher.
Because words are hard, words are hard, English is dumb.
But you know, it's just, I don't think any, I never rely on common sense being the norm.
And I think that that leaves me at a very depressing state a lot of times.
So is there any mandatory in your district, any mandatory stuff that the kids are going to have to do while they're off?
So the district that I spend the most time in and the one that my wife works in,
they had already had a plan for what they call e-learning days,
which down here in the past, what has happened is pretty much every year we'll get snow
or something that closes school for a week.
And what they, yeah, I know because we don't snow.
Do you get like three, three flakes of snow and everyone has a heart attack and closes everything?
I would laugh at that, but that's just kind of quite literally true.
I can do both of those things.
But so they had this in place to sort of, because what always happened was we'd have a week off
and then they tacking on to the end of the year and vacations and stuff got ruined and parents would get mad.
And the state came up with this idea of doing e-learning, which was, you know,
they set up these remote classes and kids can do them at home on their devices,
there's a whole slew of reasons why that's less than ideal.
But it's, it was a good policy just sort of make this work.
So they had it built in for this, this week that they're off now,
they're going to do those e-learning days.
And that's going to make up this week for them.
They're just going to work from home.
The next week was going to be spring break anyways.
So they took that off and the state has lowered the number of days of the year.
So it's usually 180 days that are making it, I think 160.
So the district decided to take the next week off and the kids don't have to do anything.
They're basically just going to get a two week spring break.
As of right now, they're going to go back after that, depending on how things go,
that may change, but they had that sort of built in.
Now, my daughter's district has no e-learning.
They lucked out there on a two week spring break now anyways.
So it's kind of up in the air.
What's going to happen after that is to whether they go back or they're going to try to include you together,
some e-learning thing.
But the problem with e-learning in her district is there's no devices.
So the kids don't get a specific device like the kids in the district I work in to do.
They get a laptop to take home where her district doesn't have that.
What age range do they do in home learning?
Everything.
So like my wife is the first grade teacher, her kids are doing it all the way up through.
You know, I've got high school seniors.
Yeah, my daughter is in first grade.
And they sent home a bunch of works, works sheets and packets and stuff that was their answer to the young kids e-learning.
So my daughter is in first grade and maybe just was timing them which they shut things down because the superintendent of her school system didn't make a decision until like a late Friday night.
So if she wasn't sent home or anything, the teacher had sent.
Apparently the teacher has like a blog set up for where the bunch of learning stuff, but the best my knowledge none of it is mandatory or anything.
So basically we're just kind of winging it.
My wife said that she was going to try and do some stuff with the kids today because she took today off because we don't have anybody to watch the kids and we both have to work.
She works a front desk at a pediatric office.
So she's going to remain working for the foreseeable future until the station at now.
So we, but basically we're just going to have to come up with our own stuff just so she can mentally stay in, you know, mentally stand again.
Oh, I think there's no question that there's going to be a giant just sort of gap for kids during this because they're not.
They're just not no amount of learning on your own.
At least from I got to be careful about the way I say this from a performance metrics standpoint is going to be as ideal as being in a classroom.
Not not to say you can't learn things on your own is just the way we have the system set up.
It's kind of necessary, which take from that which will I think it's kind of horrendous.
You can't learn the things you're measured on learning.
Yeah, which who cares if that's important or not details.
Yeah, those are the details I have to worry about.
But I know the as far as like what I'm doing, that's a big part of what I've been doing from home is helping teachers like create curriculum.
And like these are the tools you need to set up, you know, ways for kids to learn from home and do stuff like that.
Like that's it's literally what a lot of my work from home is right now.
Allow the packets and stuff that were sent home.
Where did you get that stuff mandatory stuff that has to go back at some point?
Or is it just like suggested stuff for during the time off?
I don't know the details for sure. I think it's what you the teacher said they expected was spend at least 20 minutes a day on each of these subjects since on home three or four subjects worth of stuff.
I don't know if they actually are expected to return the packets or not.
And they didn't send them home with the kids.
Yesterday and today they had specific pickup times are like, okay, if your child's teacher's name begins with you can come at this time to get these packets.
Interesting.
So they were they were caught very flat-footed.
They tried to respond quickly, which I'm commend them for responding quickly.
But because they responded quickly, they didn't have a ton of plans and but I would rather this than the other.
Yeah, the way they handle it for like I said, the district I work in is the kids get grades on the assignments just like they wouldn't class and they actually take attendance based on whether you turn the assignments in.
So like I you could I guess theoretically just do them all the last day and turn them in.
But that's that counts for your attendance.
So like if if we actually have graduation, if you missed too many days, then you're not going to graduate.
Now in your room.
How long is the same thing for me shut down for?
We're shut down through the end of March basically at this point.
Officially here things are shut down until the 30th things are supposed to start back up then.
But that was a decision that was made like Saturday or Sunday Friday night Saturday.
I guess this Friday was a professional development day.
Kids weren't there. It was just a teacher day.
So I think sometime Friday they made some of the decision, maybe Saturday.
And then they're starting it was actually it was starting Monday.
They were closed with the intention of doing something and then sometime either Sunday or Monday decided now we're closed for two weeks.
So I'm actually our school district shut down for the mid decision on Friday night to shut down for one week.
But the intention of you know we're going to take at the end of that week will take a look at things and then possibly shut it down for two weeks because a lot of the school districts are here.
We're shutting down for two weeks and then governor.
On Sunday.
You your signals breaking up so it has like I can't completely understand you but you have this very cool like robot voice going on.
Yeah on the downside we have no idea what you're saying on the upside you sound like Optimus primal you're saying it.
Excellent.
I mean I don't think you could hope for a better outcome than that.
Right.
That's bad spot one bad cellular service.
Yeah, the only thing I was saying was that it was initially one week by the district and then the governor called it for three weeks.
As far as I know everything is shut down for at least three weeks.
Man matrix is being real distracting for me today.
Good distracting or bad distracting.
I am thoroughly enjoying myself.
I just.
I'm doing more of that than I should be doing I think.
Yeah, it's nice to be on IRC again.
It is I missed it so much like what I kind of I came into the trailing end of it being a thing and I even missed that.
So the fact that matrix is become the thing that has got brought people back to IRC that that makes me happy.
Well, and I think matrix from my perspective as someone who uses on any even day I mean slack discord teams and now also matrix slash riot.
It looks like that's kind of finally adding the last little bit of visual sugar to IRC to kind of bring it into a competitor with the other things.
Well, like you said, you messaged me and I don't think I ever responded to it because I just.
It's busy.
I think it replaces matter most, which is nice.
I'm not getting rid of matter most because I have another team on our server that is my martial arts buddies and they will not move to something else.
So I have to keep it going.
But it's probably hard and nothing at the moment of that.
Oh my god, it was so hard.
They wanted to do everything on Facebook and then be mad that I wouldn't participate.
So moving it over was was a big win for me.
So I'll take it.
But like to be completely honest, if it was more reliable like today, it's been up and down.
I think part of that is just sort of the circumstances were under.
Well, it's a decentralized system on a centralized server.
Of course, it's going to have a bad time occasionally.
Yeah.
And that's one of the things that I I don't have time to work on it.
But I would be interested in spending up a server and seeing how hard it is.
But I mean, it could replace signal because it has the encryption built into it too.
So I mean, it matrix has the ability to be a lot of things and help me get rid of things.
Which is a thing I'm very, very open to doing.
The only problem is it's like work won't do that.
Work wants to do their own things like they're trying to they've been trying really hard this week to push teams on us.
And I'm like, uh, no.
And that's funny.
I'm having the opposite.
We currently use Skype for business.
Uh, my group would much rather be using teams and we are licensed for it.
And we are not being allowed to switch.
Because between the two of those teams is a lot better.
Yeah, I could see that.
But it's still not matter.
Well, I mean, it's just, um, okay.
So my, my thing is now why isn't there a teams to matrix bridge?
Because there is for everything else.
I can bridge slack into matrix.
I can bridge, um, discord into matrix.
I can do all sorts of things to where I can use a free and open source platform to engage with these things that I don't want to be part of.
Uh, honestly, probably because the teams is still largely only used in the corporate sector.
Well, he said Microsoft.
So if that was a given, I mean, they really want to not just be corporate.
I think they have a long, a long road of gaining more goodwill, which they are doing.
Like I will get in that and, uh, pricing things appropriately.
I thought you could use kind of the base version of teams for free.
Now I'm going to go, I'm going to actually go to research here.
That is not on brand.
I'm chocolate because the first thing I find when I look up setting up teams is PowerShell commands on how to set up teams.
I can't say I'm disappointed with that result.
Yeah, no, no, not really.
Power Microsoft has really gotten on the PowerShell terrain.
And let me tell you as someone who has been a long time bash practitioner, PowerShell is fucking great.
I just have zero use for it.
So I can't weigh one way or the other.
What if bash was object oriented?
See, when I code, I don't use object orientation because I don't get it.
Yeah, I was there too.
So how about this?
When you pipe things around in bash, you pipe around text, right?
Because everything should be text.
Well, PowerShell pipes around objects and objects have properties.
So you can, but you still get pipe lining and things.
Yeah, I can do, especially with the enterprise level things, PowerShell is blown into.
I can manage my corporate environment from a shell.
And it makes me very happy.
I mean, I'm going to be that guy, but I think what you just said is you can show.
You're always that guy.
Don't worry, they did it to me yesterday.
I mean, you're doing a show right now.
Yeah, but it's not really me.
It's other people talking to me, just sitting here trying to get work done.
It still accounts.
I mean, if something could count and be low effort, I'm totally there.
I don't think you need to do a show of just me.
What was that I couldn't hear you over Lyle Chordeling?
I could do a show of just me by myself talking.
I've done, besides just like when I saw cast off, I've done like two of them.
And I convinced Taylor to come on with me this way.
I had somebody to talk to as opposed to rambling by myself.
That's actually one of the things that Lyle and I have done for each other in the past.
It's just be the other guy.
And so it helps a lot.
And I would say just to anybody who listens.
If you need another guy, like hit me up, I'll be your other guy.
I'm going to stop for that.
I used to offer it in like Saturday's Saturday mornings.
If you have this mumble channel and he would be that other guy.
If anyone wants to record a show, he'd help them record a show.
That's it's going to make a ways.
It's probably not a terrible practice to bring back.
I would just have to be available for it.
Right.
All right, Taj, this is what I was Chordeling about.
Yeah, so now I have something to put in the show notes.
See, while I do an age with Facebook, I've got my Facebook very, very finely tuned to basically just be memes.
There's going to be a small subset that are going to get this.
I don't think it's that small of a subset.
I am also making bread.
That's a little recurrence around here.
You okay?
Well, it's not normal for me.
We'll see how it goes.
Are you doing it with a bread maker?
Are you doing it by hand?
By hand and hold on.
I will also link you the recipe.
I will say, like nothing is like homemade by hand bread.
But a bread maker is really convenient for like, hey, we just want to make sandwiches.
Yeah, we're making a soup tonight for dinner.
And I'm like, you know what's good with soup is nice crusty bread.
Usually I'd go to the store and buy some.
But there's a plague going on.
And so I'd rather not do that.
Good call.
I will next time I go to the store, I have put a yeast and bread flour on my grocery list though.
Yeah, that's one of the kind of the defining things that my house is.
You know, KJ will ask for the good bread.
That's what she means.
One woman you make by hand?
Yeah, so I usually do that occasionally.
But yeah, so that that is I'm making half that recipe.
And it's currently in the first round of rising.
All right.
I'll talk to you guys later.
Back it should have.
It appears that I am being summoned to a work call as well.
So have a good one.
All right, then man.
Is this on?
It is. What's up?
Good morning.
Well, I think much really just Corona ink.
Yeah, time is sort of degraded into this long stream of I don't know what time it is or what day it is.
It feels like it's Wednesday.
It is Wednesday.
And the only reason I know that is because start trip a car comes on tonight.
So I can watch that.
It's the only way I know what day it is.
I just looked at the date bar.
Well, I could have done that too, but.
So how's your python going on?
Pretty good.
I kind of got hijacked today to do some other things.
So I haven't spent as much time on it today as I would have liked.
But in general, yeah, pretty good.
I'm about halfway through the python the hard way book.
And so far, it's kind of dust of the cobwebs off of the little bit that I do know.
So I'm hoping that I can get through that the next day or two.
And then spend the next two weeks doing exercises and stuff and kind of branching out a little bit more.
I mostly just see it as a pearl without all the weird symbols.
It is as much as I love this.
It is kind of nice to not see just parentheses everywhere.
Although sometimes it seems like it would actually be more hopeful to have the parentheses.
Yes, the tabs are definitely not the best syntax.
Yeah, for sure.
That's one of the nice.
That's one of the reasons that I've always liked when I teach programming to teach a list,
because it doesn't like there's no white spacing.
It's literally you can make it look the most ridiculous way possible and the computer can still interpret it.
Where python, like if you're spacing is all for something, then everything just kind of blows up.
Oh, and careful with the scoping rules.
Yeah, I'm getting there.
If you define a variable inside a loop, it's visible outside of it.
Good to know.
Never call anything time.
That could be a problematic.
It's ridiculous.
I had a variable called time and then for that reason I couldn't load the module.
Or I did, but yeah, it just it just broken as I was.
How come you can't find the model in module?
How many times does any programming solution just take variable at a number behind it and then suddenly everything works?
Too many times.
Right now I'm uploading a YouTube video because that's what my job is.
About python?
No, because we're doing all this e-learning stuff for the schools since they're not in session.
A lot of the teachers in the state have been sort of stuck because they're like, how do I do e-learning?
I don't know how to record my screen or anything like that.
So I just made a tutorial thing for our program to sort of spread out to the schools in the state.
And I feel kind of happy because it's basically just completely pimping open-source software all the time.
So hopefully I did my good for the world today.
Nice.
I'm thinking of recording an HPR episode on FMP.
I did open broadcaster studio because it runs on everything.
The only problem with it is it's a little too intense at first, but once you kind of learn that most of the things you don't need to change is not that bad.
Yeah, I just had to use FMP yesterday and now I feel like I should probably write about it.
For sure, it's super powerful like it's as noted by just look at any program that does any kind of multimedia and FMP is somewhere in there.
And it's much faster than anything with a GUI.
You've been listening to HECKA Public Radio at HECKA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECKA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Otherwise, status, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
