Episode: 3957
Title: HPR3957: The Oh No! News.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3957/hpr3957.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:57:47

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3957 for Tuesday the 3rd of October 2023.
Today's show is entitled The Oh No News.
It is part of the series' privacy and security.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet, and is about 37 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Scotty talks about investment and recovery scams.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet, and this is The Oh No News.
Today let's talk a little bit about the human CPU, also known as the human brain.
Now I'm not a medical doctor, I don't play one on TV,
and I haven't slept in a holiday in in quite some time,
but I am some guy on the internet.
Therefore you can trust everything I'm saying.
The human CPU is very advanced, and when used to its full potential,
we can achieve almost anything.
Now there is some argument about using the human CPU to its full potential,
and I've heard about studies where they say we only use X% of our brain,
you know, some small percentage of our brain.
I think that's possibly because all of the other areas of the body
is being controlled by the brain.
So it's not like you can use your entire brain specifically for processing,
unless you were somehow, I was about to go into true tinfoil hat,
but I'll save that for another time.
Now most of us, we know about CPUs that go on our computers,
and we typically don't refer to the human brain as a CPU.
I'm doing it now to sort of, you know, connect some dots.
Our CPU takes information that we've put into our computers,
and it processes it similarly to how we process information
shared between human beings.
So right now, I'm sending information to you
and you're processing it using your human CPU.
These are very light instructions you're receiving so far,
but it's about to pick up.
So just bear with me.
Now, the type of instructions we normally send to the human CPU,
which is conversations one-on-one,
sometime we'll do group efforts,
but information is usually lost whenever people speak at the same time.
So you'll have multiple people trying to say something at one time
and that generates noise.
So instructions are lost until the communication is done more efficiently.
Now in software, one of the things we do,
especially I'm going to stick to open source software,
we collaborate on open source software.
So many talented individuals use their talents
to make one bit of software better over time.
And it's not just programmers, right?
It's not just people who actually type in the instructions
that will ultimately be compiled into usable software.
Sometimes it's people who are just passing by who audit the source code
and maybe they don't have the time to implement the actual changes,
but they can give information about what areas of the source code
contains of vulnerability.
And this is usually discovered because of examining other software
and seeing those vulnerabilities occur
in that other software,
so that information is being passed from one project to another project
in order to increase security in both projects.
So by the end of this entire process,
once you compile that software from the source code,
there has been information brought in from countless sources.
I mean, we can keep track of some of it
if you're using something like version control software.
There's some information that can be tracked,
but there's no real way to keep track of all of the information.
You know, every person you've ever spoken to
about coding practices was the best practices to use
when creating all of these functions and things
to reduce vulnerabilities.
Users just receive something that's excellent in desire
and that's because it's community driven.
The entire community has inputted some donate money
so that more time can be spent on a project.
Others donate their time and energy
to help polish the project.
Users can also give back feedback through telemetry and things
so that way the developers can understand
what areas need more attention
because these areas are used more
and here's where users are witnessing the most frustration.
So what it all boils down to is
there's a lot of information circulating
around a single piece of software.
All of that information is being processed
by the CPU and your computer.
Now let's stop and think about the human CPU
just a little bit more because when you're interacting
in any situation, especially online,
and I'm gonna keep our focus on the online interaction,
most of the time we do not consider
all of the information when interacting.
Stop and think about it.
Some human beings are on the internet right this second
and they're being asked to provide money
for a situation that has not been well presented.
I took the liberty of finding three recent scenarios
that have occurred online
and I put them down the show notes.
We're gonna discuss them a little bit.
The first scenario we're gonna discuss,
a human being was asked to provide money for information.
This information would ultimately return itself
as more money to this human being
and it would do so far quicker
than the human beings normal route for acquiring money,
meaning going out and working,
performing some sort of service,
payment due for services rendered, that kind of thing.
That's the tried and true method for achieving
in today's world, but when you get online,
there these accounts floating around
which are being managed by human beings,
but at the time that most humans
are interacting with these accounts,
it's driven by a piece of software.
We just refer to that as a bot.
So the unsuspecting user,
the human being interacting with this bot
is being given a scripted bit of information.
This script has been tested numerous times
through trial and error
and the way they've designed it is,
was the least amount of effort
into getting the most return.
Here's the least amount of information
we need to provide to any actual human being
on the internet that will influence that human being
into separating from their hard earned money.
Now in this scenario,
which I'm going to refer to as scenario one,
the human being is on platform.
The human being encounters an attacker.
Again, the attacker most likely sent out a bot.
The bot controls an account
and the account only has one job,
communicate with real human beings,
attempt to take them off platform.
Once off platform, begin the attack.
Now the purpose for going off platform,
well let's back up for a little bit.
Before we discuss going off platform,
let's talk about the interaction,
the human being online in order to be considered a mark,
someone who is, well, easily influenced by this scam,
they usually look for people who are in desperate situation.
In a desperate situation,
many human beings will not think,
they will not process or seek as much information
as possible to process during a situation.
If you need money and a mysterious stranger
from nowhere shows up with money,
some human beings typically bolt on any excuse
to just engage with that human being.
The attacker doesn't necessarily know that you're desperate,
not all the time.
A lot of the time is just send the bot out
to communicate with anyone, right?
The bot will send you a private message
informing you you can get a lot of money
in a little bit of time for little to no effort.
If you respond, it continues to engage with you,
thus bringing us to the next step,
which is to take you off platform.
The reason for this is the platform
that you're currently on is the hunting platform.
The dirty work that's about to happen
needs to be done elsewhere
because once the scammer is caught
and there's evidence on platform
that this account is being driven by a scammer,
will all the work in setting up this botan
using it to influence other users
and to giving up their hard earned money
for nothing at all?
Well, all of that hard work goes down the drain
because the account will get flagged,
it'll get banned, and then this camera
I have to start all over again with a new account.
And I know some of you might be thinking,
well, the accounts are free on most platforms,
you just make one.
Well, here's the thing, with a brand new account
that has no history at all
and does not communicate with anyone,
no friends or family or anything,
that normally stands out
and it will stand out at a glance.
So you don't have to really do a lot of digging
to determine this is a bot account.
Now what the attackers will do
once they've stolen an account from a victim,
that account which has a history
which has friends attached to it
which has all of the things that can help it to masquerade
as a real human being,
that account will now be deployed in scams.
So the attacker has an account
which appears human on the surface.
It has a victim in its clutches
and it is now dragging the victim off platform.
Because see on platform,
there's the image of a human being off platform.
It can be any old account.
It can be a brand new account
just created five seconds ago.
There's almost certainly going to be no effort
to verify a second account
because the first account that the user engaged with
gave the impression of being a human being.
And if the user wanted to just look a little further,
there was enough information in that account
that could lead one to, you know,
anyone to believing that this is an actual human being.
Look, they've got friends, they've got family,
they've uploaded photos and all sorts of things, right?
This is a real human being.
And this human being is telling me
there's a very good business deal
where I can make a lot of money really quickly.
I just need to speak with him over here
on this other encrypted service off platform.
Now, once the user goes off platform,
they engage more closely with the attacker,
exchanging payment information
and other personal information.
The attacker normally leads them to some site
that is controlled by the attacker.
The site is designed to look like some sort of marketing,
some sort of money marketing site
or whatever stocks or day trading, you know,
one of the popular attacks involve digital assets.
So cryptocurrencies, NFTs, anything blockchain related
because there's so much hype around this.
Most users do not understand this technology,
this blockchain technology.
They've just heard a lot of excitement surrounding it
and that excitement takes the place of valuable information.
So instead of processing information
to learn rather than not,
this is a great investment.
They process the excitement.
So if I just shouted, wow, this is great.
I love it.
I love this digital asset.
Another human being will process that excitement
in those words.
Now, if they only process the words themselves,
you don't understand that there's actually
no benefit in those words,
just saying that gives you nothing.
But if you process the excitement in it,
well now there's this false sense of value stored in the words.
And now if I direct you toward a site using those words,
now suddenly you're processing false data with the excitement.
Now they do this in a number of ways as well.
It's not just somebody shouting something crazy
like I've just done.
Sometimes it's videos.
They'll show a video like a 10 second video clip
of someone just throwing a stack of $100 bills onto a bed.
You know, something that just shows great wealth,
large sums of cash, maybe jewelry
or something like that, expensive things.
Now, if you just process that,
here's a video of something that has absolutely nothing
to do with what I want.
And they're showing me this as though
I'm supposed to be able to use it for something.
That's what logic will tell you.
This is just a 10 second video of absolutely nothing.
But if you're processing the excitement,
combine with this video of large sums of money,
which can be done if one enables the desperation flag
in the human CPU.
Now you can begin to process almost anything, right?
You can compile all of this useless information,
the excitement in the words,
wow, such a great investment.
Combined with videos of, you know,
probably fake currency being thrown around
as though it's just paper because ultimately,
that's what it is.
Now you can see how a user who ordinarily should be able
to see this as absolutely no value.
Now they're somehow processing tremendous value.
So they hand over their personal information
to the attacker, the attacker,
configures, there's a website that is masquerading
as some sort of trade day trading site or something.
And they tell the victim, okay,
head over to the site and look at your investment.
The user who is now in a victim
because they've already given over personal information
and or payment information.
You're not a victim at this point.
You were just the unsuspecting user
until the attacker has now benefited, gained from you.
Now the victim is looking at the site.
They see that they've invested, say, $100.
And in just a few seconds, even minutes,
that 100 has went up to 300, through 150, 400, 500, 700.
Whoa, that's major increases just like the attacker told me,
I just got hundreds of dollars for doing absolutely nothing.
But remember, we've enabled the desperation flag
in the human CPU, the images that they're seeing
on this website mean absolutely nothing at this point in time.
The attacker then says, well, you could really maximize
your investment, but you got to do it now
while the process is hot, right?
The money's moving around like nothing we've ever seen before.
You better take advantage of this while it's happening.
So now the victim authorizes additional payments,
giving more information, maybe even handing over access
to a bank account.
Now some banks will flag suspicious activity.
However, when the attacker is in contact with the victim,
the attacker can now provide influence.
When the bank sends a message, hey, we think you're being scammed,
you should watch out, look out for these signs, right?
Here's information to reduce negative impact
to your financial stability.
Well, the victim is still in direct contact with the attacker.
So the attacker explains, oh no, this is just a safety measure.
They have to tell you that.
So just ignore it, right?
Like click yes on the pop up.
Never mind that is a licensed agreement that you are signing
and you will be well, very surprised in the near future.
Just click yes now so that you can begin benefiting.
So the user has a lot more information to process now.
You've got a bunch of useless information,
you know, the videos they excitement.
You've got the information from the website,
which is also useless because it hasn't actually proven
anything to you.
You're just watching numbers on a web page go from 100 to 700.
But that actually translates to nothing.
So it holds the same value as the videos.
But then you've also got other information from your bank,
your bank, a place that has proven it can keep your money safe.
A place that you have went in been verified authenticated
that you are the customer.
They have provided you with information that allows you
to store money there and perform other services
with money there.
So that is a legitimate service for you that you trust.
They're now telling you something's wrong.
You should be careful right now, something is wrong.
The scammer, the person you do not know
who has you processing all of this hype,
all of this excitement is telling you to ignore
the trusted organization that you have physically been to
and have signed documents and everything,
ignore them and trust the scam, trust the illusion.
It's absolutely absurd when you think about it logically.
It's like for you programmers out there,
it's like a Hello World program, right?
Three to five lines of usable code instructions
that will simply print Hello World on the screen, right?
Now imagine that with about 4,000 lines of comments.
It's absolutely ridiculous.
There's absolutely no reason to have this.
But when you enable the desperation flag,
well, suddenly now you have more information, right?
Suddenly, suddenly now you have more things to consider.
I wouldn't even call it information.
You just have more things to apply to this situation.
Now it all becomes real to our victim,
the moment they try to withdraw the money.
You see, the website that they're looking at
tells them that $100 has turned into seven
and they have just made another deposit of, you know,
maybe another $100 or so.
So they're expecting to see $1400, you know, $1,400.
The attacker decided to make it look a little bit better
like, okay, so now you've instead of getting $1,400,
there was like a bonus or something.
So now you've got $2,000.
So out of $200, you now have $2,000.
You know, this is an attempt to get you to hand over more information,
more money.
But maybe you're like, okay, okay, I will do that.
But first let me take some of this money out.
And then I'll reinvest it, right?
You know, try to keep a cycle going here.
Well, when you try to withdraw the money, see there's a problem.
There's some taxes and things you have to pay on it.
And then there's some processing fees you have to pay on it.
And then there's the other fees and blah, blah, blah, blah.
So now you end up spending more money and more money and more money
just so you can get that $2,000.
So now you have spent about $600 trying to get that $2,000
that's on the screen because you paid all these fees
and processing and taxes and all this other stuff.
Eventually you're just saying, okay, enough.
Just give me the money.
I'll invest more, but just give me the money.
That's when you get blissful silence.
Suddenly the attacker's done with you now.
They've gotten all the money they can get out of you
and this go around.
So there's no need to talk to you anymore, right?
Just go ahead and block you.
You're gonna continue to ask for more.
And if you're not putting in any more money into the machine,
the scam machine,
where you're taking a valuable scam machine time.
So they're just gonna cut you off now.
Now, here's the thing, they're not done with you
because they successfully scammed you.
Your information goes on to another list.
But for now, the scam or the attacker
you're currently dealing with cuts you all.
They block you on the platform.
So when you return to the platform to try and contact them again,
suddenly you can't, you've been blocked.
Well, you want to report them, right?
You want to tell everybody that,
hey, I've been scammed.
Well, where's the evidence?
What messages do you have that you've been scammed?
Well, I have these messages from another platform,
from another user name.
Oh, suddenly you're seeing the problem here.
It is now becoming clear that you have no way of proving
you've just given money to this individual.
But there's no problem.
Maybe you can't do anything on that platform.
However, your bank controls the money, right?
You can go to your bank and stop the money.
It's simple, it's easy.
So you contact your bank, you tell your bank,
hey, I think I've been scammed, stop that money.
You know how in the movies, whenever there's a chase,
the main character jumps into a taxi and goes,
follow that car.
Well, that's you, you hop into your bank's car
and you say, follow that car,
meaning the scammer that's dashing away with your money.
The bank, instead of putting the car in drive
and racing off after that scammer,
instead, the bank driver of the bank's car
turns back and look at you and say,
but you've authorized this payment.
And you say, yes, yes, I know, but it was a scam.
It was a scam.
I didn't know that it was a scam at the time.
So that's why I authorized it.
The bank didn't tell you, yeah, I know,
but we're not going to go chasing after it.
You've authorized it.
It's gone.
Once you've authorized it, put your signature on it.
It is done.
So imagine you sitting in the car with a bank's driver
in the bank's car and you're telling him,
look, stop talking, put the car in drive and go after him.
We're losing him.
The bank's driver is still just staring at you, saying,
look, it's done with.
There's nothing we can do.
Even if we caught him, there's nothing we could do.
You're asking, how can it be?
I'm telling you, it was a scam.
The information, I have the information.
I have these these images and stuff in this website
and these these posts from all these other platforms
and well, the bank's driver's telling you,
I can't do anything with that.
And you would really love to know you really,
how can you do nothing?
How is it?
You take my money and send it over to these people.
And now you're telling me, you cannot even stop it.
You can't trace it.
You can't do anything in the bank's driver's telling you,
like, yeah, there's absolutely nothing we can do about it.
You see, you use this peer-to-peer app designed
for sending money from point A to point B.
It is not a consumer technology
in the way that you're thinking of it.
You see, you're not receiving a receipt for a purchase
and then you can refund this purchase
if something goes wrong.
No, you're just sending money.
You're just taking money at point A,
putting it in a slingshot and firing it out to point B.
And that's it.
And now there's an awkward silence
between you and that driver as they just explained to you.
Now get out the car
because I gotta wait for other customers
they need to go somewhere.
So there is no exciting high-speed chase for you
to get your money back.
No, it just ends.
So you go on, you contact the police
and everybody else, they all tell you the exact same thing.
When you put your money into a slingshot
and fire it into the void,
don't be surprised if there is no way to recover it.
That's just the way it works.
The same thing is true
if you were to light your money on fire.
Once it turns into smoke,
you cannot just grab the smoke back
and put it in your pocket
and then spin the smoke like it was the money.
It doesn't work that way, it's gone.
So I know most of you must be thinking.
Now that I'm scammed, I have to find a way to recover.
Oh, at least it's over,
but I got a lot of work to do.
I spent like $600, I got things to pay for.
So I have to make a lot of decisions.
Now tough decision.
Well, what you don't realize is
the scammers aren't done with you yet.
You see, suddenly now someone contacts you
saying, hey, we've gotten a report on our desk
that you've been recently scammed.
We can help you recover your funds.
Now you must be thinking,
how convenient this is exactly what I need.
Someone to help me recover from this scam.
Goodness, just in the nick of time.
So they tell you everything you need to do.
You need to provide this information
so that we can have you in our system
properly, right?
You're a client, you're a customer.
Okay, so now that we always see here,
we see that you have spent this amount of money.
Okay, we see this scam and process
and we think we can recover.
Oh, you spent $600.
We think we can get about $530 at $600 back.
So you're thinking, oh, that'll do.
That'll do, that's fine.
So what do I gotta do to get this $500 back?
And they're telling you, oh, it's very simple.
If you go ahead and give us $100 now,
we can go ahead and get that process set up
and we'll also need your bank information
so that the money can be wired back to you.
What we'll do is we'll pay you from our account
and then when we get the money back from the scammer,
we'll keep that,
but we're gonna pay you now from our account.
But first we need your bank information,
your account number, your routing number,
your pen to your bank, all of that.
We need that.
So you give them the information they asked for.
They say, okay, now head over to our website over here
and I want you to see if the process is done appropriately.
You head over to their website,
their website redirects you to,
say for instance, if you told them you do Bank of America,
it redirects you to a site that looks like Bank of America
and it has your information in there
and they say, okay,
we need you to authorize this transaction, right?
We're gonna send you $530.
We need you to click yes and authorize the transaction.
All right, so you go to do the authorization,
it's asking you, do you want to do it?
Make sure you type the amount in,
the exact amount you're expecting to come over.
So you go to type in the $530,
except you accidentally hit an additional zero.
Oh no, you accidentally transferred $5,300.
From these really nice people
trying to help you recover your money.
So they're shocked as well.
They're asking you, why did you transfer $5,000?
We told you only $500, oh my goodness, oh no,
this is terrible.
So you're thinking, oh, how do I give the money back?
Cause I don't want to rob you,
I just want my money back.
So they tell you no problems.
Subtract the $530 from the $5,000
and send the rest back to us.
So you try to do it on the site,
but oh no, the site kind of closes it.
It kind of logs out or something, right?
It glitches.
No problem.
All you have to do is log back in and send the money.
So now you go to log in to the authentic site,
the real bank of America,
and you set up the payment to go to them.
They tell you, okay, yep, yep,
I understand you lost the information.
We'll tell you exactly how it works.
You set up the information, you send it via Venmo
or a Zell or whatever,
whatever peer to peer app that they have,
you set it up or cash app,
they'll probably ask that you use cash app as well.
That's another one of these peer to peer systems.
You send the money over to them,
because I mean, after all,
you really, really don't want to rip these people off.
They're helping you get your money back.
So this is great.
So now that the process is done,
you've got your money back.
You've given these nice people their money back,
you know, that $4,000 that you accidentally took
from them, you've given them their money,
it's completed, you're good.
A message from your bank pops up saying,
you've just spent $4,000.
And you're thinking, oh, okay, yeah,
that's because I just sent them the money, right?
I just gave these people their money back.
It's no big deal.
You're probably gonna get a call, probably.
But let's say, for instance, you don't get a call.
No one contacts you.
Instead, when it's time to pay bills,
you know, mortgage and other things
that need to be paid, you realize, holy smokes,
where's the money?
And my account is in the negative.
You start tracing back, you know,
most of these accounts online
that give you like calendar view,
and what money was spent on what day blah, blah, blah.
And you realize that $4,000 that went out?
Yeah, that was not because of $5,000
that was added to your account.
So you sent the additional back to the recovery agency.
No, you just simply sent out $4,000, that was it.
But what happened, I thought, I saw it online,
I saw it on the internet and it said this
and I thought that and, well, let me explain it to you.
After you've been scammed for some smaller amount,
rather it's just for your information
or for your information or money,
the scammers keep your information
and they mark you on the database as you're a mark.
You're somebody that can easily be scammed.
So what they do, they hand you over to the next scammer
on the chain, you know, basically they're co-workers,
co-scammers.
Now they wait a little while
and contact you at just the right moment to inform you
because they already know you've tried to contact the police,
right, everybody does the exact same step.
You run out and try to get help to get your money back.
So now we won't feel strange when someone contacts you
to tell you, hey, we've heard you lost money
and you'll have the feeling that they must be legit
because in their system, they seem to know
the exact amount of money you lost.
They must be legit, right?
Or they must be the people that scammed you
in the first place.
So basically what has happened here is
the scammers have taken a second bite of the apple.
They got the first bite
when they scammed you the first time taking your information
in the smaller amount of money,
you know, the 100 which grew to about 600
in the first scam.
That was a delicious bite of the apple
and they got a lot of wonderful information from you as well.
Bank account information, your full name, address,
telephone number, email account, everything.
They've got a lot of good information from you.
Now when they come back around to scam you the second time,
they can confirm all of that information
they've gotten from you as well as getting additional
information by getting bank information,
routing and pens and everything else that's necessary
and get even more money from you in a process.
And once again, you've used one of those slingshots
made specifically to send money into the void.
Now a lot of times with these recovery scammers will do,
they'll get their victims to make a short video.
So they'll get you to take your phone out,
record a short video of yourself being happy and excited
that this company has just helped you got in your money back.
You've just recovered almost fully using this company
and you send that video to them.
This is before you've discovered it was all a second scam
and you just lost even more money.
So they have your information, they have your money
and they have marketing material that you've generated
with an authentic look and feel that they can use
on their next victim and they're still not done with you.
You will receive more scams in the future
because you're a mark in their database.
They'll run you through the gambit,
every scam that they could possibly run on you,
they will continue to run on you.
Now if all of this sounds terrible
and it sounds overwhelming,
if it sounds like if you found yourself in a situation
you absolutely would not know what to do.
Take the moment now to take a deep breath.
Be thankful that you're not in a situation
and be thankful you have knowledge now,
the ability to stop, think and process the data.
What is the information that's being placed in front of me
and how is it relevant to what I'm attempting to accomplish?
For sure, we'd all like more money
but I know how to make money, I have skills.
I'm employed to use my skills to make money.
This other thing on the internet
that is being placed in front of me,
how is it relevant to making money?
If you don't understand it,
gain more information on it
and not from the people presenting it to you in the first place
because think about it.
You can always spend more time investigating a situation
even if you don't wanna do it today.
You can do it tomorrow or the day after that.
Just spend the time to investigate to look at it.
If it didn't make sense
or if you don't even wanna spend the time to look at it,
if it just seems like it's too much, leave it alone
because if even investigating this situation
is too much for you to be bothered with,
imagine once you're five, $6,000 in a hole because of it.
Imagine trying to dig your way out.
Imagine even explaining to your loved ones
how you got there in the first place
because you gotta get help, right?
You cannot just sit here in this hole.
Somebody has to help get you out of it.
How do you explain to your loved ones
the people that will ultimately come to free you
from this situation?
How do you explain how you got there?
The key to it all is taking as much information
as you can about it and process it.
Don't allow yourself to process a bunch of useless nonsense,
you know, hype, videos that mean absolutely nothing
of people smiling and throwing around cash.
Whoo, what does that mean to you?
You're not smiling and throwing around cashier.
You're attempting to get money so that you can pay bills.
Even if you had the money that they're showing in the video,
you would be investing it towards something better.
So none of that makes any sense to you.
The technology they want you to invest your money in
seems like it's all around a bother.
You don't understand it.
So why even bother with it?
If you can't even make sense of it,
do you think it's a great idea to put your money in it?
Nah, let it go because think about it
as long as you're still in control of your money
and your data, you've won.
Just stop, think, process.
Take additional time if you must
because remember, you're still in control of your money.
Even if it's not a lot of money, you still have it.
If you're unable to think because they're trying to
push this idea of urgency, the window is closing
for you to maximize your investment, must act now.
Close the window, delete them, get rid of them.
Because they're asking you to act with less information,
do not benefit from having more information,
act now with no information or useless information.
Because believe me, when the time comes for you
to attempt to recover, all of that will be relevant.
All right, so this is scenario one,
and we're going to end the show here.
And our next show will discuss another scenario.
Until then, take some time and consider everything
that's been put before you.
How often are you acting without the necessary information?
And are you processing information
that is not beneficial to your cause?
Do you see yourself as being vulnerable
because you accept in information
that may not be beneficial?
Because there's nothing wrong with receiving the information.
The problem is, if you cannot process it
and see that it is beneficial to you,
yet you still act on it, that's where the problem is.
So, not giving you enough, go forth, enjoy the day,
and think on it.
Pack your wallet and still in your pocket
with all of your money and all of your data.
You're good, so long as it stays there.
I'm some guy on the internet.
This is Hacker Public Radio.
We'll catch you in the next episode.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
then click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided
by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons' Attribution 4.0 International License.
