Episode: 4374
Title: HPR4374: 24-25 New Years Eve show 7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4374/hpr4374.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:00:36

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4374 for Thursday 8 May 2025.
Today's show is entitled 24-25 New Year's Eve Show 7.
It is the 20th show of Honki Megu and is about 147 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is…
The HBR community comes together to say happy New Year and chat.
And Poki.
Yes sir.
I didn't see who said that.
You…
Mornancy.
When you asked me about Thailand earlier, I posted the link to my travel blog for Thailand,
but didn't remember to tell you that it was in there.
Did you see it?
No.
I didn't, but I'll look for it now.
I think I might have been out of the room when you did, because I don't remember seeing
that pop up.
I posted it why we were talking about it, but I can send it again if you want to look
at it.
You don't have to look at it.
Mornancy.
You're over driving things a bit.
Not as bad as Murf was.
Is there any relation to American Thai food and Thailand Thai food?
Oh God.
No, I have not had Thai food in America.
We will be testing that difference shortly.
I would love to hear about that on the Linux loadcast, because the Thai food I have had
here is one of my favorite things, but I don't know if it has any resemblance towards
real Thai food.
If you send me pictures, I can probably tell you.
What are your spice levels and how spicy was it?
I wouldn't say super spicy.
My personal preference for spice level is when the sides of my ears itch, so that's
kind of where I'm at.
Oh, yes.
Mornancy.
I did see this.
I did open it.
Yes.
That's my third trip.
I don't know why.
You're visiting there.
You're not living there?
No, I'm not living here.
The first trip I had a month vacation and stayed for two months and worked while I was
here.
A semi-secretly.
Last year I had a month vacation, fall of December, and then stayed for two extra months,
three months total, and super-secretly worked here.
Since I'm a work from home employee now, officially, I decided I didn't have to tell
anybody.
And this year nobody knows I'm still here.
I just took vacation and I'm here until we fly back February 1st.
I got a one-way plane ticket this year and only brought a backpack and a carry-on and
had no idea when we were flying back.
So her fiancee visa was approved on, I think we got it back, the 14th or 15th December,
12th December, it's one of the blog entries about the visa, but we got her passport back
with the visa stamp and then purchased an airline ticket's backway and we went with one
of the cheapest dates to fly, which was February 1st, beginning of January was way too expensive
for airline tickets.
The toast with the smelt on top looks incredible, I would definitely get down on some of
that.
The what?
It looks like toast and cheese with smelt, a small fish from the Italian restaurant.
I have no idea, it's just the pictures are scrolling, pictures 6 of 11, the back button
doesn't work on your website.
It's blog, it's a Google bot blogger years ago.
Oh yeah, it's a blogger site.
It looks like a sale.
It works differently on a desktop process.
Yeah, there's like four pieces of toast with cheese on them and each one has what looks
like a smelt on top of it and it looks delicious and I would definitely.
And entropy, they were delicious.
Order, and show the rosemary potatoes were, the anchovies, rosemary potatoes were delicious.
Really good, a hearth baked pizza, really good, the lasagna you could have was a little
dry, you could use more sauce on my opinion, you'll find lots of pictures of food, not
just Thai food but sushi and Chinese and Persian, just everything.
I have not, just me, just personally, I have not liked any Thai food that I've had here
in America, not that I've had it anywhere else either but to me I have not liked Thai food.
I've had several authentic Thai places in the Columbus area and they are not authentic,
having finally been to Thailand and had real Thai food.
Now, it's a night and day difference and she actually wants to do a food truck or cook
out of the house and I'm like, I don't want to work, 80 hours a week and then 40 more
doing paperwork in taxes or the regulation or cook, but maybe we'll do something
again.
I know somebody who used to work in the health department, they can point us to all the
stuff that we can do with minimal government oversight, maybe we just make sauces and
stuff.
Yeah, the Thai food, can you even get decent ingredients?
I think it was so, I don't know about really, really good mango in Ohio but we have a couple
international grocery stores in Columbus that from what I've seen here and people making
stuff should be able to find a lot of it's just a handful of specific ingredients together
like the Thai chilies and the fish sauce and garlic and you mash it together with a
pumice and stone mortar and pestle.
Yep.
Yeah, I think a lot of it is the way it's made and not necessarily the ingredients that
you can find.
The secret ingredient is a lot of it.
And if we can't find anything exact, we can always cut fusion.
Well, yeah, that's like the guy who made Sri Ratch.
He couldn't find the Vietnamese peppers that he made it with traditionally.
So he tried some Mexican chili peppers and he was like, oh, these are even better,
we're in luck.
And now we got Sri Ratch sauce.
And he hasn't changed the whole sales of it in 30 years.
Oh, I know, which I'd bless him but also damn the markup when the supply dwindles, these
fuckers will gouge you on it.
They do, actually, every time it goes up, I don't see it come back down.
No, I've seen it come back down because I bought it in a grocery store a couple times
for like six or seven bucks for the big bottle.
But I have at times paid, you know, 36 bucks for the same big bottle.
Happy New Year from New Orleans, y'all.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
There's one Asian grocery store in Columbus and I can still get the big bottle for like
$1.95.
Oh, and it's so good.
Do you know what kind of pepper Sri Ratch is, Pokey?
No, I thought it was just chili pepper.
It is like the one hot sauce that tears my stomach apart.
I cannot eat it.
I wish I could because it tastes good, but I just can't eat it.
Oh, really?
So, yeah, like, you know, the little peppers they throw in general sauce chicken, those
I can eat with like no effect.
But Sri Ratch just messes me up.
Yeah, the ones I put in general sauce, I kind of like those except they're little,
a little tough to get your teeth all the way through.
Yeah, and I've seen people just sweat off of those and they have like no effect on me,
you know.
So I like those.
And have you seen any of the Melinda's sauces?
I've been getting a little samples of those.
I was just going to ask that.
The green Melinda's, the greens, it's called green sauce.
It is so effing good.
It is unbelievably good.
Was that on you random that you were talking about that because I went that day and went
through about three stores trying to find it around me and I couldn't find it.
But I've got a bunch of the little sampler models.
Oh, I probably did.
Yes, I would have brought the, if yes, if you listen to you random, I would have
ranted about it there because the green sauce was so good.
They got a bunch of different ones too.
I think I tried about six or seven different red sauces and they were decent.
They were some decent one like the black truffle or white or whatever, the truffle one.
That was decent.
You could taste truffles in it, you could taste it.
But the green one is really, really, really good.
But I, I don't know if I said this on that show or if I discovered it after that show.
But I put the Melinda's green sauce on a piece of steak, which I didn't do it first.
I tried it on chicken, I tried it on pork loin.
I put it on a piece of steak and like just ate it without even thinking about it and
about looking at it and it tasted like the feelings different, the consistency is different.
It tasted like a one sauce.
It was a very similar like sweetness to vinegar like ratio as a one sauce when it was on
a piece of steak.
So it's kind of similar to that, but it is a little spicier.
Is the green the fire roasted jalapeno?
No, there's a jalapeno one.
That one's even better.
I just can't find that one.
But there's one that's just called green sauce.
The one that's called green sauce is the one that I can get.
That's the one that's around here.
The one that is jalapeno sauce or habanero, I forget which one.
There's another green one, but I can't find it locally.
And the one that I bought from Amazon was really expensive for a really teeny bottle.
And I don't think it was the same.
It wasn't as impressive.
Well, you just cost me a little money on Amazon right at the moment, because it's now
on its way.
Sorry, I didn't mean to cost you any money.
But the one that's just called green sauce, that has been the one that stood out to me.
Well, I just sent myself a bottle of the green sauce and a bottle of the jalapeno.
All right, well, if you don't like it, you let me know and I'll buy the rest off of
you.
That's all right.
Amazon's like three times a week delivery anymore.
It's horrible.
Yo, yeah, I know what you.
I got my Amazon deliveries down to beef jerky that doesn't have any additives.
It's just literally just dehydrated beef.
And geez, that might even be it.
Oh no, the goju jang.
I like the goju jang sauce.
I get that from Amazon and I buy my coffee online and it's about it that comes with
it.
Yeah, we've got enough work out far enough to where nothing's real close.
So it's it's cheaper to get stuff delivered on the subscribe.
So I know probably a lot of people hate me for saying that, but where I'm at, it works
good for us and actually pays for itself in the long run.
Oh, it definitely would if you had to drive for anything.
We live right next to like six grocery stores and we still pay, I think it's maybe five
bucks.
It might be 10 now.
They might have gone out.
But we pay for them to bring the groceries and put them in the trunk of the car.
And it's well worth the time that you save from going into the store.
I can only imagine I've been a drive to the store on top of walking around inside
the place.
Yeah, to get any variety, it's at least a $60 gas bill for me.
So yeah, you won't and also I, you know, as I've said a couple times, I've traveled around
a bit in the last few years, mostly up and down the eastern coast and you get anywhere
outside of a city or like what do they call it?
You know, the mega cities like kind of how New York and Boston are almost the same city
because they're kind of connected, but you get anywhere away from that shit.
The only grocery store is dollar general and that's it.
There is no such thing as food like you don't find fresh produce unless you stop at like
on the side of the road to buy produce and that's up and down the eastern sea coast.
And up here in Northeast, there's a lot of little farm stands where people will sell
like the vegetables out of their garden, but I don't see that once I leave New England.
I haven't seen it.
I don't think in New York definitely never saw it in Pennsylvania.
There's enough farms that you just stop at a farm.
But like South of Pennsylvania, I never saw anybody with a farm stand near their house.
And then you could drive for hours and the near, the closest thing to a grocery store
was dollar general and you know, they're just selling canned food and like, you know,
all kinds of vacuum packed process stuff.
It was really sad.
Yeah, we've got them down here at Pokey and South Jersey.
They're usually on the honor system.
They'll just have prices and you just put the money in like a little little box or something
like that.
The farm stands?
Yep.
Yep.
Yeah, that's what all ours are through the honor system ones.
We can get good produce from about mid-July till about mid-September and you know, a lot
of fruit stands with local stuff, peaches to die for, you know, but that's about our only
time of year when we can really get good stuff other than we can get local honey pretty
much year-round.
Yeah, that's crazy to me because up here we got like grocery stores all over the place.
Like people argue about which grocery store is better up here.
That's how many we got.
And any time of year you go in the grocery store, it might not always be the best produce,
but you can get produce, you can get, I had a let-as, you can get apples and oranges and
you know, celery, broccoli, you name it.
It's all there.
It's all there all the time.
The only stuff that might be seasonals like exotic stuff like dragon fruits or star fruits
or like wacky stuff like that.
Well, stone fruits usually seasonal.
I mean, the stuff we can get some stone fruit this time of year, but I wouldn't, I
really wouldn't.
Like cherries are available right now, but a lot of times we get them from like chili
and they're these tiny little red things that are like, I don't know, they keep on forcing
it out.
And I have to put it out, but at the same time, I mean, I don't want it because it's not
the season for it.
Stone fruit, your peaches, plums, nectarines, cherries are just basically a summer thing.
The other ones, it's mostly, I mean, apples get put into like a cold storage where it
can last a very, very long time berries.
They rotate where in the country we get it from like summertime.
I believe is mostly California area while wintertime we get lost of our berries from like
Florida.
And then if Florida's crops are having a hard time, we'll go as further down into like Mexico.
The yeah, a lot of times they rotate where they get the stuff to kind of keep it in year
around.
Yeah, for sure.
And that's the same thing up here.
I mean, they only grow in certain parts of the earth, certain times, but you can get
them.
They're there.
I'm saying if you drive, if you drive through like West Virginia or like, I mean, go
New York state, upstate New York, you go outside like the city area, you go into the cat
skills or further west than that or western Pennsylvania outside of Amish country and stuff
like that.
There, you can't get a cucumber.
I'm not talking about stone fruit and apples.
You can't get ahead of lettuce.
You can get, you know, if it's not in a can or pre-packaged frozen or like vacuum sealed,
you can't get it.
There's, there's, you don't get to pick up a watermelon and knock on it to find the
good one or you don't get to smell the pineapples, asshole, the gold.
This is the fresh one.
There's no pineapples.
There's no water.
There's no nothing.
They just, I mean, they might be there and I just haven't come across them.
But I mean, I've spent some time around there.
They're not common.
I'm comfortable saying that.
The grocery stores aren't common in those areas like regular grocery stores because
Della general's not a grocery store.
That's what I'm saying.
Exactly.
That's exactly what I'm saying.
Dollar general is the closest thing to a grocery store that exists on most of the east coast.
Like there is in my travels and I stay off the highways.
So take that into account.
I stay off the interstate cycle on all back roads.
But I will see five dollar general's to every Walmart and I might only see two Walmart
today if I'm traveling outside of cities like that.
But it makes me think that where I'm traveling is outside of cities and if you live in the
areas that I'm traveling outside of cities, you just don't have a grocery store.
You've got a dollar general or you've got like a two hour commute, like a three hour
round trip or a four hour round trip to get a cucumber or a head of lettuce.
Yeah, that's exactly what I'm saying.
That's nuts.
Just the amount, there's like just in my town, there's at least three grocery stores and
two of them are the same company.
The two of them were stopping jobs and then you go to the next town and say the same thing.
We got two of the same and then two of another one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You go into another to the next town after that and there is it's a little bit bigger.
So I got at least five red.
It's high and it's high and this is considered like a look close to a city but it's there's
it's a little bit larger area but there's probably at least five different ones.
I got stop and shop two shaws, old foods, there's another one of them too, yeah.
Yeah, we got we got Haniford, we got market basket, next town overs got shaws and then
we got even little markets.
We got a small market here.
It's not a chain, it's Arthur's markets the name of it but that's where you go for the
good meat.
They got the awesome meat counter at Arthur's market and then you got other like fancy boutique
markets.
There's friggin' trader Joe's not too far from here, there's all these, I mean like I can't
I mean I could go on and on and on and on.
It's just like I said but I'm in a population center and it just I guess my point is when
you leave a population center, if you've never have, you'd be stunned at how little food
is available that's made out of real food, it's all just frozen processed shit.
That's just nuts.
So that was kind of my point, it's I don't blame anybody for ordering real food from Amazon
if there's real food available, if that's where it's at, yeah go get it.
They do, the Amazon do first first.
If you're close enough.
Okay.
I know they do use whole foods for like pick up and stuff, they use like the closest
whole foods for delivering fresh produce or that they had like a warehouse but it would
have just kind of done it the same way.
There's a whole foods about an hour from me but I don't think Amazon uses, Amazon's
about a week out delivery where I'm at and the whole foods, I bought a breakfast bread
on a drink one day and I think it was about 20 bucks so I don't really go there.
Right.
It's going to say, yeah that's how it's going to say, I believe Amazon owns whole foods but
I've never been in one because I've heard they're real expensive.
Yeah.
Trader Joe's, Trader Joe's if you've never been in one, they can be real expensive but
they have certain things that can be real cheap.
Yeah I remember here when you talk about the Trader Joe's wine before.
Yeah that's awful.
It's got awful.
I might have liked it at the time if I was talking about it.
I must have liked it at that time but no it's it's got awful, it's like two buck chuck
everybody calls it.
It's probably three buck chuck now but they got some, like they're nuts.
If you buy their nuts bulk, buy them like a pound for a bag, they're real cheap but what
my mother just discovered they have there and sadly it's only seasonally they got Italian
Nuget that is unfriggin believable.
It is I was stunned and I took a bite of it and before I was done chewing I had to text
my mom and I'm like what the hell, this is the best thing you ever bought me, what is
this?
What is Italian Nuget?
Oh boy, it's a chewy but not super chewy, it's a candy, it's an Italian candy, I grew
up on it.
That doesn't help you.
It's white, it's kind of chewy but not as chewy as taffy and it's kind of halfway
between like a taffy and a marshmallow but it's not.
Tasting wise, what is it supposed to?
It's got almonds in it so it kind of has an almond taste and the one that she just
got me had almonds and pistachios in it and you could really really really taste the
pistachios, I was blown away at how strong, like you could eat a pistachio and it was
not as strong as the pistachio flavor that this Nuget had, like I don't know if they added
it to it or something or if they're just using but they could have just the pistachios
could just be that high quality because all the nuts at Trader Joe's are way better than
nuts you get anywhere else so it's possible but I'm not really sure.
But Nuget is, oh man, it's, I don't know how to explain it, it's chewy but the layers
like the top and the bottom of it, I don't know if it's what they make it on or how it's
cooked or if they even cook it but it's kind of papery at the top and bottom but the inside
is chewy but it's all the same thing, it's not different layers of different materials
it's just kind of the way it forms but it's really good, it's sweet, it's you know maybe
too sweet for a grown man but as a kid you'd love it.
I think I understand what you're talking about and it sounds good.
Yeah it's really, I don't know, look it up I guess, Nuget and O-U-G-A-T.
I'll say the name Taroni.
Yes Taroni, Taroni is the one, yes thank you Taroni is the one I grew up on and that's
what I was expecting and it was really good I loved it as a kid and I loved it even
as an adult I ordered some a couple years ago from Italy and it took weeks to get here
and it was really delicious and the lady at work was like we get this at a corner store
you paid for this but the Trader Joe's, that was a great accent, I know it's thank you
but the Trader Joe's one that my mom got me I bit into it expecting the Taroni's Nuget
and I was blown away it was like Taroni's times two it was just, it was crazy but I guess
it's only a Christmas candy.
Pictures of seeing actually look like they have straight pistachios and straight almonds
and just and they have the Nuget kind of poured over it.
Yes yeah yeah yeah exactly yes.
Pictures of it like a wafer bar almost.
Yeah yeah yeah it's about maybe three three quarters of an inch thick and they usually
maybe an inch wide and an inch and a half long.
I don't think I've had it before but I believe I've seen it before it looks delicious.
It is delicious and the Trader Joe's one was longer it was like a big bar it was not cut
up into the small pieces like Taroni's if you're familiar with the Taroni's the Trader
Joe's one was probably four Taroni's long maybe six Taroni four to six Taroni's long.
I don't know I'm savoring it I took a bite and it was so good I vacuum sealed the rest
of it I said I can't eat this all at once.
All right I think I got a turn in it was just having a very similar thought.
I'm oddly enough awake right now but I'm looking at the clock going it's 130 I know the
kids are going to be up my kids my kids get up at five o'clock in the morning so I know they're
going to be up soon. No I'm sorry I got it all right no that was it I think.
Same here I got a cat who doesn't man's to be let out at three o'clock every morning so
I got to head out oh no I'm I'm falling over and my voice is failing again so a good night
ladies gentlemen everyone on the show everyone listening happy new years
it was fantastic I really enjoyed speaking everybody and listening to everybody thank you
hope you enjoy those files Pokey I already have downloaded them all I already have shared them with
Violent eyes oh guys thanks thanks hope I can hear from you folks before next next show next
year's show and if not I'll look forward to talking to you next new years all right good night and
happy new year happy new year happy new year just checking anybody's still here we are doing good we
just visited the one colleague temple in Pazia and we're going to go see if my friends response
open and then go to the other colleague temple sorry about that drop my ears but I hope you're
doing all right and my best wishes to Elle she smiled that's for bell thank you that's worth the
worth wait for what for both of you although I would put Elle in first place I'm biased that way
you know North North East Elle when you come to the states even if you're working you'll be working
five day weeks probably at most which should be a nice break she said oh wow yep and also in the
states we invent holidays on our holidays so some of those weeks we'll get trimmed to four
four days or even shorter like Thanksgiving which is on a Thursday which usually means a four
day weekend no I wonder what you'll do with that extra day off a week two days off a week and
I hand some young husband she a wonder what a pretty girl could could do with that probably above
my pay grade that is to say it's secret or private I could not be happier for both of you if you
were my own blood thank you so much I cannot fight but it should get fun the words to express how
happy you make her feel say that yeah words words are nice but you understand without them
enough well mortency how is Elle doing she's doing good she's had four weeks to go through all the
stuff in the condo and figure out what she wants to keep what fits and where everything else is
going to go and once we figure that out then we can go by the exact number of suitcases we
need for the flight back soon she'll need two or three to herself and I'll have to get two or
three also I'll need one for stuff I bought and then whatever extra for her extra suitcases it's
going to be it's I think it's going to be more than what she expects because she's she's moving
she said she doesn't need any help she just needs me well I think you'll just have to
start to work it out now I'm not supposed to drink so Rob if you can please kiss the intoxicating
lady a couple of times for me I'm supposed to stay so absolutely I think we found my friend's
restaurant we're gonna stop and eat if they're open don't know if they're open well that's fine
and if you have to sign off that's cool too so enjoy yes this reminds me of the good old days
when I was doing security work for for the midnight midnight date watching oftentimes an empty road
and our gate was a stop sign in the speed bump not what you'd call high security but it paid the
bills for a while and it was interesting to patrol the grounds of a condo complex on foot
run into the occasional skunk and morning dove and one time on a very dark nighter
a ice stumble across a baby possum or they stumble across me I don't know which one of us was
more scared this may not be the usual HBR technical discussion but then again this is net minor at night
and you know we can fill the empty as the default host I can fill the air with whatever I like
and I would like to wish a happy new year to all of the Linux logcast crew
past and present and all of the folks with hacker public radio
they really make my holiday season much better and I hope we make the holiday season better for you all
and of course we try to make the rest of the year as good for you all as we can now as a former
and active, active watchman this may or may not be heard by anyone but I want to thank all of those
men and women who are serving their country whichever country it happens to be as the poet said
we sleep safe in our beds because rough men stand ready to protect us now I should add there are
also women in harm's way in many roles these days with that poem was from an older time when women were
not so much in the front lines perhaps even when you had front lines these days that's not so much
so happy new years to all service personnel ladies gentlemen and those like my brother who served
during the Cold War or somewhere maybe a little short of the gentleman saying but he did all right
good morning everybody this is Paul Gray here I'm just dropping in to say happy new year and I hope
you're all having a great time and somebody who actually showed up to make the waiting worthwhile and
thank you very much for the happy new year and so you can't stay but stuff happens and that's
exactly why I'm sitting here interjecting in occasional monologue into the dead air but
the few that show up are making it worthwhile for me to wait well it's good to hear your voice and
yeah we've I mean obviously here in the UK it smells new nine o'clock in the morning so
New Year's Day and I have to go up and see my mother shortly but I thought I'd drop in I
to be honest I thought the stream would have finished by now so I'm quite pleased that it's still
running and I look forward to hearing everybody that's dropped in over the last last hour well
well well please accept my best wishes for you and your family I don't have much family left
anymore but but it was always a great holiday when I could see my extended family right I guess
we'll have to be your extended family now then and in Hacker Public Radio so anyways good to hear
you and I wish you all the best for the new year and the coming and the coming day and yeah
have a good one thank you please give your mom a hug for me
take care and hopefully we'll talk again next year absolutely thanks so much and goodbye everybody
morning all morning the winner still out or two hours 40 minutes to go well I've been keeping watch
well I've been keeping watch yeah I heard happy new year well happy new year yes and I've
just been this is like old times I used to be a security guard watching an empty gate and an empty
road all the damn night long yeah I'm just going to post some shows now with a huge backpack
because I was working on the scripts I kind of got it I think last night but we'll see how we
get on this morning I think I just missed Paul which dropped in a few minutes ago well I
spoke to him I think I didn't know he dropped in again okay maybe if I'll hang on here I'll just
start doing some posting shows and tidying up stuff I ordered it to her by disc last night for
the HBR backups cuz it's doing my head in it's still every single time day I have a disc that's
just picking off to take the one and then they expand and expand so I need to physically go through
all them all the very different copies although I have been doing hard links and I'm so that has helped
but it's still not very big chaotic so I want to make sure I have it have a good copy of
a particularly the source material if you ever want me to re-encode it I'll just post today's show
so if I disappear you know where I am well I'm just warming the bench here till somebody comes by
very good very good truncate silence will work it's trick the snip upstairs now for a minute
hello friends
well hello friend thank you for stopping by
yeah let me come back over
well thank you for making it worthwhile to hang around here
well as we're counting down the last hour or whatever two hours
yeah I'm just sitting here I usually go out around five five thirty in the morning
do my two to three hour walk in the morning so gotta do those 10 to 20 000 steps a day
otherwise when I was living in New York I was walking mornings like early morning 435 a
morning yeah well I was doing security nights and sometimes I'd do an eight hour shift straight
through just doing all the rounds because I didn't want to deal with the gatehouse
I haven't done that much walking lately but I probably should do more especially on the other
side of the snow when the weather breaks and I can start using some of the facilities around here
both sidewalks and we have a nice walk and track on a park a couple of blocks away
I do live in Boston itself like New York Commons or you just that small town out there
yeah I'm one of the towns down on what they call the south shore okay which is south of Boston
bedroom communities mostly and yeah I like I said my my late wife I got a trick but my
late wife was from Lowell we used to go there quite a bit originally from Lowell it was on
there but then she her family moved to California and she lived out so on well my my condolences
sir I was at literally it's now because of the year it's now going on 10 years so kind of
used to it I'm on an offendating but you know I'm never getting married well sir I haven't had
but one semi-series relationship it sort of peered out after 20 years so I haven't nearly had
the kind of wholesome solid relationship that your mention of your wife mean so please
about 20 years I'm not in close 23 years matters but you know a couple of years
well I'm just saying that's about two lifetimes more than I've had so I'm sad for your loss but I'm
glad for the good time for the solid time you seem to have had oh yeah no we were filming this
one the kind of us we couldn't have kids with my disappointing but we had cats I still have one
one Roman around here doesn't love me I don't think some of the guys know how different their experiences
I haven't dated much or certainly whatever I don't know I I've had friends forced me to get on
apps the last one and which we literally just I mean I don't know if we broke up I just stopped
talking to myself talking to me but the last one was more of a this is my friend you should date
my friend like my my friend's girlfriend introduced this I was like okay whatever how she's nice
but you know daughter hates me I hate going over the place they differently than me so you know
it's too much going wrong well yeah well I mean
everything from the marriage statistics to the population statistics show that
people are just not doing they're not hooking up uh with any seriousness anymore
oh no you know what I mean only if they have to like if one of them gets pregnant you know
somebody doesn't you know whatever it's not like you know sorry I'm hitting my
my dish talking to you but yeah it's not like um uh people have solid and like I can't I don't
seemingly can't do a full relationship anymore I've dated a few times since you passed
I mean I waited about almost three years until like I felt like maybe I should see somebody and um
you know and nothing's lasted long you know and I haven't taken anything seriously not
everything's usually I don't know not not only that um you know there's there seems to be at least
among the younger ladies which are the more merit uh formerly more marriageable you know well
I should have my fun in my 20s and then when I'm 30 there will be some guy waiting for me to
to wife wife him you know to he'll he'll be there waiting patiently while I have my fun with
with and other guys and uh then when I marry him I will be settling down and settling for him
instead of all the exciting guys that I've spent 10 years dating and whatever
yeah I mean I'm in a fun way of looking at some the way some people probably do it I mean
most of the most of the people I'm with are either divorced I don't actually the last couple I
mean I took a week before I told them I was widowed because that's a whole different book
to somebody dating they just assumed that was divorced like everyone else
I'm like yeah that's marriage is the same woman for you we dated for you
well not not only that the uh uh people who've been run through the ringer of divorce that's
a different thing from losing your partner through natural or unnatural causes yeah I don't know
I mean but um yeah one of my friends is uh so I've had two of my good friends also have similar
situation different one one died a cancer mine died in her sleep um the uh but my um I had one
friend his wife was rendered by a teenager that lived next door that was kind of I guess
talking the way you know it's crazy like the amount of pull in my life that ended up I didn't know
yeah I mean I knew him for a while he's kind of an online friend and we talked for a bit
oh and then another friend whose girlfriend died in his sleep I mean they were close but they weren't
you know weren't married or anything but they lived together so I mean you get to know them but
when I joined law school to help me I'm the only one that had a partner die so it's usually like a
kid or friends something else so the law school never helps but in my normal life was just
going around kind of built my own law school for the three or four other people that went through
what I did yeah well what what works what works exactly there's there's a famous military
axiom if it's stupid and it works it ain't stupid oh exactly yeah if it would I mean that's
my whole thing with technology when we're doing something and we're testing something I'm like is
it working then why are we trying to fix something it's already working like we're just trying to
streamline it or something I don't know I didn't get to pay the developer bucks that I just
worked for developers all right I should see the code and I could code but you know I'm not the guy
who makes a decision yeah you're the guy with the hammer and nails and saw but the architecture is
above your pay grade well I always explained my my my interaction with with technology as far as
support for my work life as well as my home life I'm kind of a mechanic right so at work I was a
mechanic but even the limits I'm good enough to fix things and I can code fit but I'm not like you
know I don't have to reference everything if I were coding or trying to put together a program um
but I have that mechanic like the MacGyver fix mentality yeah I'm like the lead mechanic and
in one of the highly sought after shops in my work life well I have you know I was doing some stuff
trying to get uh samboworking and with that and dealing with Linux formations and all of that
stuff is it can be a real trip now let me ask why are you trying to get samboworking because you
have Windows machines or Mac machines on the network no I I was just using it because it was
seemed to be built into all of the file managers for Linux oh because you could use NFS which
is the you know the next file sharing or whatever it's called I mean you could use that to share
between those machines but here's the other thing too if you have a Chromebook or Android device
those the file managers usually look for like a sample like they're like a Windows
which is odd because they're Linux kernel based well that's just it that that it sort of
sambow seems to be the pigeon that everybody speaks whether they're Mac Windows Linux what have you
uh my um my issue is always with my scanner I'm I've been using the same scanner for years
I actually picked it up secondhand it's an epson what is the uh epson v30 it's a flat bed
and every time I get the drivers working something happens they remove something from the kernel
that it requires or something and so I end up putting together a file order of reinstalling
for the latest Linux Mint update with a kernel update um destroyed my scanner again
functionality I didn't destroy it but you know me being able to scan I like this scanner because
you can't get scanners with this kind of resolution I mean you can but you're not buying them in a
story and I got to lock it at Target or Wallyworld or office file or just gonna buy a scanner with
a printer that you don't want but I mean you know I like to scan older photos and my sister sends me
family photos and I scan them and put them up I don't know I'm still in there it might need to buy
a new one well what one of the things that everybody has heard of files ill of yeah but one of the
things that's intriguing me when I get some things straightened out is that they actually have a server
that's available and there are files ill of professional level products which have more bells
and whistles including google drive support and stuff like that and I'm kind of seriously I'm kind
of thinking about whether it might be worth the investment in in getting at least having one
machine that that has a bit more commercial file transfer stuff oh yeah sorry I'm
walking around my house I might be phasing out on you but yeah I know and I even know I've
been doing Linux in the 90s there's a lot of things like that have changed or and I've gotten
lazy-sare at things I'm not that much into shell as we'll say the younger Linux people anymore
I'm like if it works in a gooey I'll figure it out but I have to use shell I'll do it but
proficient enough where I can go winning no half the commands yeah well some of the stuff is a little
still still can drive your nuts yeah I've uh
yeah I've just been dealing with stuff also one of the things that I've been thinking about doing is
is FTP SSL it seems to be if it's you just have to put an SSL certificate even a self-signed one
in the right place with your in your FTP server configuration and then
files ill or what have you will do it do uh you know just your standard SSL
uh data transfers low I mean file transfers but they will be SSL secured
we've talked on it off over the last couple years but we only seem to talk on New Year's
um is there any communities you belong to outside of it's here it's online communities
um not really uh I used to belong to Boston Linux users group but I haven't been there for some
yeah well it was over at MIT and I would go over but because of transportation and the trains
it was a bit of usually the people who live in town or have cars whatever they would go to the
lug meeting and then they would go out to a pub through pub afterwards but uh because I was on
the self-sure I could go to the meeting but I'd have to get myself onto the red line and hit itself
so I'm going to say something I'm the worst at recruiting for my own organization well it's not
my own uh it's other people have made it crazy the community years years years ago back in 2011
it's online one and Moss was kind of touching on it last night um I don't uh P uh who's
was in here too he's uh he's usually a little good at bragging people into it um in telegram we have
a community used to be a Google plus community but we're the plus we moved over to telegram
and asked it on and um I mean you're welcome to join in I'm just saying there's always somebody
talking but it's it's very hippieous I'll tell you that like some of these people have called us
a totally not really because nobody's asked me for anything people talk about normal things
uh we have tools no religion no politics there are no conspiracy theories too and you just
basically talk about whatever you want I mean there's a lot of tech talks there's people that
talk to an ex there's people that are windows there's people that are max and we talk about anything
it's just we call it tech and a coffee and it's just basically talk about uh one one of our
founding members who's unfortunately deceased now but teach them up with a um uh what they call
us because uh I know why you call it tech and coffee it's because you can discuss technology while
you're having a cup of coffee I didn't think about that I actually named it because they ran out of
name and I had a cup of coffee in front of my computer for work and so um I got one of our members
calls it the virtual water cooler because a lot of us were remote users that were working
before the time of the thing but I'm just saying you're welcome to come in you know as people
are always talking about it and there's an audio to that someday hopefully just people be
well I'm like mom I will I will have to see because uh might be interesting
and uh you know the ways to find us are there except we're not really doing Twitter or Facebook
anymore I gotta remove those ones but at least I'm not I'm only maintaining the message on
side and I have two other admins that go on sometimes yeah well they're in the right admin the Linux
log group logcast group has as a bunch of those things but I haven't really been
devoting myself to any of that kind of community that's my only really social network outside
of Macedon is because I interact with these people every day like some of these people I mean
I've never met I've met maybe I don't know a third of them in real life um but we used to be a
community of about half a million believe it or not um but that was in Google Plus say
we interact with Google quite a bit but most of us became authenticated literally we had
virtual meetings hangout with Google Google because our community became quite large the only
were bigger than us were the porn community yeah I can't compete with porn so I'm not going to try
well the the whole uh I don't know what's what's happened but um when Google
Google had had a lot of promising stuff but they just canned a lot of it and when they took
over YouTube well a lot of the good features were wiped out yeah I mean and you're right there a lot
of stuff completely destroyed well I mean I know they do that you look at the graveyard or do
so much stuff I like to do four or five projects that come to mind that I enjoyed from Google
better in the graveyard yeah I'm living Google Plus well now I used used to belong to several
Google groups which were use net you know we're an interface to use net yeah but but Google
has severed their connections with use net for whatever reason even the text only groups
and uh now Google groups are the ones that I used to sign on to are just full of junk absolute you
know I have you pure spam yeah I'm the thing I mean for me I live alone with a cat I'm not going
to live with anyone else I even told the last girl I was dating up we're not going to live
together just face it I'm not going to get married to you or live with you probably why she isn't
talking to me anymore but um I mean but it gives me a sense of unity I guess you know because it's
just like every day interacts with these people we have little ongoing jokes internally and stuff
and I like it because you either have text communities that are just
technically it's one thing of technology like if you join the Linux mix community you know what
you're talking about Linux mix right this is just you can talk about anything like you know
one of our admin he talks about like her son or daughter playing talkers you know and then there's
other people that just moved into places and they're discussing like oh you know I just want to
move furniture I'm building it now or something so this is like normal stuff but mixing with text
now like people will just talk about oh like let's look at this article I found or something
I like it because it's just a hybrid and I didn't mean it that way but it became a hybrid so
well I'll have to have to think about that stuff um thank you certainly it's nice to know that I
have options yeah I mean I just do it because it's like I don't do faithless and I don't do
Twitter and I have a blue sky account that I barely even like that but I do look at
math on a couple times but I also maintain the second copy one there are other people that do it
but I'm gonna say I probably post 98% of posts that are up if you follow the Macedoncan
coffee you're probably following you know my extended tech account well the thing that I'm looking
you know again the guys are pretty big into you know matrix or whatever
oh matrix we have matrix actually um if you want matrix if you have matrix there's a matrix
we have the matrix channel that goes to the telegram it also goes to three up for others are one
of our people cheering he was here last year the year before with me and the British guy was in
Berlin um but he went and we did the web page um I'm like horrible at least you know but he
greeted the web page um he put it on a host thing somewhere um I can access it but it's some
little low profile thing on the web page it's done a really good job he joined us when he was
like he's a teenager now he's like a developer living in Berlin but uh he's you know he's
good kid and uh he's like a little child that grew up but uh yeah well I'm just
I make it on some stuff um I've been even thinking about getting a a VM set up just for some online stuff
and I'm also talking talking like virtual machine that that I would run something like
um well maybe tails or something but the idea is this machine I might even get onto some of the
IRC channels and whatnot yeah without with isolating everything from my host machine oh that's
you know I I'm having work um in the fields I have and having had to do now forms of
cyber security and stuff too I mean outside of that that one's not like folks but having you
know pull things off of people's computers that they shouldn't have there or uh scantings you know
you know I move it and see threats and stuff um I I just I mean we're being tracked anyways
specifically by big corporations and so I don't really uh and having been a Google beta tester
I don't really find it too threatening I just I don't I'm not doing anything bad I don't know
they want to track my like online tech but I don't know I mean uh for for one thing um if you
especially I mean on a lot of this stuff they're gaming they're fantasizing in other ways
yeah yeah and as long as they're not doing the stalking saying or stuff like that
all right so I'm like three times yes I ran a giant community and I've been a god one
and I don't I don't know you know I'm like like I just I'm just saying that uh you know I'd like to get
back um back in the days of dial up I was involved in some alternate lifestyle communities
and I can tell you that 50 shades of gray is absolute garbage
well the deal is the deal is that it's person this is supposedly sophisticated experience dominant
picks up a novice and the and goes straight to caning which is pretty heavy to stuff and the
novice does not know enough to say for it which is you know basically pull the air break
and every you know whenever anyone talks about that you're you're supposed to develop the trust
and structure that doesn't make that kind of you don't make that kind of jump with a novice you
just don't yeah so so here this however it also reinforces the fact that anyone who who has
any idea of dominance is going to be a brutal idiot uh since since that's the first community
where I had reasonable acceptance it you know and considering my background alcoholic vanilla
household uh well what one of the submissives that I contacted through to this alternate bulletin
board she wasn't mine she she was a committed lady but she just on weekend she liked somebody
else to drive but she also had some other skills she was a certified honorary pistol instructor
which meant that not only was she a manager slash executive in some Boston area medical facility
unnamed I didn't need to know but but as far as when when she wanted when she gave you you know
this gave you the keys uh you know she was a powerful lady who was handing over her power
not a weak not a weak person as a submissive she was definitely stronger
and if you mistreated her she could park your hair at about nose level
in self-defense if you know what I mean
yeah well I'm just saying people think of the submissives as weak and I said yeah this one will
is weak enough to make why it hurt step wide
for about two minutes while I burn my teeth with my
like I'm sure you don't want to hear that I also like my question today
but I'm gonna switch over to my phone for a bit so I gotta get about a quarter mile in
for me to be able to walk this hospital out in the road
all right but you I think you mentioned the other night you were switching to Android what
what are you doing outside of Android and do you know I might pull you back but not exactly
switching I'm getting my first Android cell phone and I have a Chromebook once I have secure wife
I know Wi-Fi security is a joke but I'm hoping that with a proper VPN application I can
rely on the VPNs encoding even over the insecure Wi-Fi connection
the only insecure part of Wi-Fi in some cases because I've spent a lot of time we'll say getting
into Wi-Fi that shouldn't be as hard as nowadays it's not as easy as it was I mean it takes
a lot longer so I don't know about insecurity I would probably generate a hard-to-guess Wi-Fi
task on so I'm gonna switch oh I'm gonna disconnect from here for a few minutes and then I'm
gonna be back tonight okay just be careful using that phone while moving oh I'm in the neighbor
it's like it's a it's a I kind of watch around I close neighborhoods but I'm gonna meet somebody
and then we're gonna head up to Tenaira and have coffee there's a group of us that meet up
you started around 20s hunting and beginning of the pandemic and now we're just a coffee club in
the morning of all different things I'm their tech guy that's there's a positive phone or
computer guess who's going over their house and sickly I'll be right back we'll have a good time
this is gonna be fun apparently I'm on an edge now because five feet we must have time I
enjoy it I'm here glad I'm probably can we you know all broken up
ready for my dark walk oh fuck Ziggy all way off can you hear me am I still here or am I
just there's some weird voice yeah they're here nobody out here I need to adjust the volume
on this you're clearly hearing me do this on it you push the button some 5g kicking I haven't seen
an e on this phone that was in the UK and now 3g raise that's on my reason
yeah if I'm breaking up let me know it's I'm just walking around with my phone one
and set out so I can actually hear a card coming in here
there's nobody out I think everyone can come last day to file a party
yeah when the settings and see if I can change some
when I'm walking it's making too much noise oh microphone's on let's move that down a bit
detection threshold I'll make it like 25% apparently I have this connector reconnect me this work
is there a save button here probably I don't use some of that let me disconnect the reconnect like it says
okay it's still showing red all the time I'm just gonna push the talk
yeah now I got pushed to talk yeah I've set up push to talk on on my mumbles but it uh yeah it's a
best best idea just uh sometimes other programs if you happen to have an editor open or something
they get confused yeah I'm just on my phone but I think it's a little breezy out even though it's
nice and dark and scary out it's uh I think uh just me walking breathing is not allowing other
people to talk so I will just meet it every time I stop okay just walking around it's a bridge
area in my community and a lot of people park their service trucks because they're not allowed
to park bigger vehicles like camper is work trucks and work vehicles near their houses because of
each of these stuff and there's a lot of junk laying around here I just noticed somebody's
changing tires oh well try not to trip over anything eventually I want to straighten things out
and reinstall my app cash for devian distros that's cool um yeah that's cool I mean pretty much
doing the doing the same every once in a while you know when you're updating your uh your distribution
to the newest level or something you're doing an upgrade and next you get out half your programs
don't work or something and you have to delete all those broken links that don't exist on the
server anymore so that's awesome well the thing about it is I'm on DSL which means my wideband
pipe is pretty well relatively slim but if I dump the dev files or whatever is being pulled down
into an app cash on an SSD on a gigabit network the first download is low but it primes the
the app cash and when I update the next six machines uh they update very fast regardless
of their horsepower because they're going over the gigabit ethernet network and instead of having
to pull it down from god knows where I feel like I'm in the movie something wicked this way comes
with the with the Spanish moss and the trees blowing around me in the dark and these old streetlights
they have up here they're not really old that they just are made to look old so they look like
I don't know 1940s or 50s streetlights here with the weird bulbs on top
yeah there's traffic all over so people are going to work yeah
yeah fun fun fun oh wait is he I don't know if my panera guy just hit me up enough he's
I don't think he's here I usually walk around my neighborhood until he arrives
I mean I usually end up walking up there because it's about 2.5 miles up so I usually do that in about
25 minutes I think I'm not really sure what my walking time is especially with my
metal leg walls I gotta mute I'm talking too much
oh look it's done needed me I don't remember doing
I wasn't talking to my self with the knife and the wood is right here
this is so odd I press mute and it goes now I was gonna make a recommendation for a phone for you
um and it's I've been using these phones since my friend turned me onto them I was using
before my friend turned me onto them but before they were android it's a lot of the newer
motos are pretty decent I'm using a Moto G5 5G 2024 those are probably gonna be half price soon
because you know new year and it's a good phone I've taken overseas got a 50 megapixel camera
it's got NFC it doesn't have wireless charging bill even though it has NFC um it's uh
it's 5G of course I think I mentioned the name of the phone and uh it's probably one of the
better phones that I've run and it wasn't that expensive but I bought it new about six months
ago or so uh but I think if you go to motorola.com it's where I usually buy them they usually have
probably get it for I'm gonna guess 150 or something like that uh but maybe even less than that
I gotta meet again because I'm getting out of breath how much longer do we have on this
anyone knows or anyone's still there leaves the standard cutoff is about seven o'clock
that'll be about the time I'm actually there uh yep probably um since it's uh something like
nine in the morning in England and just keeping everything straight based on trying to map back
from new year's day well then you have the deal where uh you know we're just running out
I'm running out of gas and we're running out of time well I'll tell you what I go by the same
handle everywhere I even own geospart.com so it's I'm easy to find um I'm enlisted on in
Kelligan primarily I think I still have a signal account they really should do it um uh don't do
face place and twitter anymore but I still have the accounts there uh what else uh I actually have
geosparta gmail.com please some of the edits that out over here because please
but you can always get in contact with me I'm sure somebody's already figured out my email
and uh so you can always find me um somewhere around well thank you that's a very
full of art if we were in yeah that's a very generous offer yeah and come on over to
the tech and coffee we're not gonna kill you or anything and I see my ride is here so
I'm gonna mute and probably just head down to there I might say hello while I get my coffee
but uh you just don't find me dude okay um I will uh talk to you in a bit
let's see if I can remember how to meet me oh good morning geospart uh good morning
he's just posted to the channel I hope everyone is good sitting with my usual coffee club members
here ask panera we do a seven a.m meeting daily very good well he certainly made waiting up
for a while very good anyone online no nobody nobody here but those cats hello hello nobody yeah well
give a guy the prettiest girl in nation he gets all high and mighty it's like he was the king of
s.i.m. not sure how that's relevant but okay who uh who joined by the way I'm in I'm in I'm in
s.i.m. oh I don't understand this and and he's going to marry a very beautiful lady and uh
a little something over a month congratulations over a month thank you very much
immigrating to the U.S. we're actually been through syracia sorry uh I just got distracted by
a bug here on it's your processing script as that and give back to you so what time of the day
is it there it is 6.30 p.m. new year's day and did you have a good year of a sling what's
us in english uh change of the year new year's yes uh yes absolutely uh celebrated with my fiance
and her daughter and her daughter's boyfriend um uh we were going to the condo she stays at there's
um I don't know if I can explain this right there's a big rectangle shape and it goes up four floors
and then from the fourth floor there's two buildings that come up from that that are separate
condominiums and the first four floors the first three floors are um restaurants stores and
parking garage and on the on the on the fourth floor roof it's a green roof with a swimming pool
over the parking garage and uh workout facility and uh uh you know trees and plants and flowers and
stuff and we were like let's we can go on top there and watch all the fireworks because they're
literally going off um 360 degrees around us and just everywhere they were shooting off fireworks
and uh the door was locked so we didn't get to do that um but we there's uh four lane and four
lane highway four lanes each direction um uh at the condo and there's a big uh bridge over walkway
bridge over the freeway um that's it about two three stories tall and so we went over
yes we went on top of it to watch the fireworks uh all right that's what I saw earlier on
on the uh jizzi screen pretty good pretty good yeah and the jizzi yeah yeah and then uh uh
before that we ate at uh an Italian restaurant so her daughter has hasn't had Italian food before
and uh we ate there I think two times last year and this makes it two times we ate there this year
they have uh it's pretty pretty good uh Italian food better than average um I only have a couple
small complaints about food that I've gotten but uh uh uh uh uh lasagna lasagna was a little dry
could have had more sauce uh and more cheese i love how grandmother you like it but i used to
make lasagna as i used to work at the olive garden when i was younger and i literally made tens of
thousands of lasagna's and i'm just picky about lasagna hated the way the olive garden made
lasagna um but yeah yeah i've uh i've made it myself several times it's a lot of work to make
lasagna it's not worth it it's the best to find a place that can make it good um uh but yeah yeah
so this is my third time visiting her i would have been more than that except uh i had i'd
cancer and stuff so i wasn't allowed to travel uh so during during the first two years at COVID
because because of cancer treatments but uh um they they make you set a goal for when when you
have cancer in america you have to have a goal so you have something to look forward to when you
survive and that was my goal was to come meet my best friend yeah and then when i when i came
when i when i came after a week week and a half i proposed to her excellent and uh she said yes
she did she did say yes yeah excellent it would have been a bit of a shit story she
now how then i just would have uh i would have gone off and done stuff by myself i would have
said fun if you don't want me i would find somebody who does yeah can we still be friends
now that's good that's good news good news let's start the year how we meant to continue the
news all around yeah so that was uh i think that was Christmas of 2022 that i proposed to her
cool yeah so i'm here for another month and uh my vacation ends tomorrow so tomorrow night
this time tomorrow i have to start working again boo and i didn't tell work i'm in Thailand this year
so they don't they they don't know i'm not not in america yeah don't need to do your own personal
thanks unless you turn up are you going to be turning up remotely i'll remote i actually had
hr changed my actual designation from an employee to a work remote employee uh okay yeah uh
that's remote i had signed i'd designed a bunch of hr paperwork and part of it was that they
can cancel at any time and force me to come into the office yeah yeah i want to i won't go on that
rant i already did i need i need to look for some i still get kick out of the fact that the zoom
company the company that makes all that software that they say you can do all your business
remotely through video conferencing and whatever they are now forcing their employees back
into the office so they can make more remote access software for other businesses
sorry if i'm a bit distracted i'm trying to do the show notes and stuff so
for this webinar or for uh you know i'll do so this one won't be out until uh
middle of the summer so no for um for tomorrow's show so today's show just when those
after midnight which is bad because it breaks it breaks stuff normally we like to have all the
shows week in advance uh love as i said before we had uh uh we we changed the we changed the upload
so it has uh everything broke so for the last week i've been rewriting every single piece of code
that we have for uploading the shows or for taking them in process i'm checking them that
everything is in order that all the links are correct uh the media is correct that there's not
stuff missing that subtitles are correct uh here that uh the audio the media info from the files is
correct the exit tools is correct the audio spectrum analysis is okay they audio waveform is okay
the audio's themselves plays the show notes render correctly um etc etc so that's what we do
usually Dave is doing it with Dave is leaving the project so leaving but leaving as a general
still being a hbr host for so i will need to take this over so uh i don't want to be doing
having to do 15 different checks on the show notes uh when we post a show i will use to do the media
part and Dave did the metadata part so they they the show notes themselves and i did the actual
shows so i'm now needing to do both so all we're open is that with the editor um people can do the
formatting themselves properly on the website uh and before we also for uh sorry go ahead over
one ahead i saw the the post and the hbr um um um element matrix about the
whizzy with the new whizzy with editor and about the uh um sequel optimization for grab a new show
number yeah that's one of the parts that's for uh like when we did this uh i also started switching
to json for everything it just makes life a lot easier with a json file uh you love more
accuracy uh what key value pairs make things easier yeah yeah because we had it in like a tab
separation file that or you have key values when you're posting so what for it when i'm posting
what we get is we get a lot of unique old stuff coming in and we get a lot of code code coming in
and we get a lot of example hgml coming in and we get a lot of sql statements coming in in
shows because we're a technical podcast so we're putting that like you're rendering php and you're
rendering bash scripts and you're rendering um sql with bash php and sql so it's you escape from
that to one thing and then from that to another thing and from this to another thing it's just
an absolute nightmare so now what we're doing is we're using url and coding uh into json files
so we upload as a json data blob uh so that makes the posting a lot easier
both there you are there's a json file then on the php scripts take that and extract it out into
the individual components and does the validation again on us because you know we've got hacker
essentially so we check everything as we send it and we check everything as we receive it
but uh they check check and check yeah exactly and the thing about it is a lot of our checks before
were with key value pairs from so uh parameters in a rest interface so as you're
passing a query parameter in some browsers send additional query parameters and some decide
not to send stuff so it was always a hack that oh some things updated in Firefox and now they're
not sending this field or they're they've changed the status of hidden field to become optional or
some stupid thing so with this we have just uh json blob goes up we process the json blob and we're
now also returning json for everything we'll probably do a lot more of that as well uh uh yeah
well it it also means you know a lot of the a lot of the things that we've been bugging us for a while
a lot of things you propose is a good idea and then it just takes too much effort um managing the
show notes from different people it's just too much effort people are people want their show
notes formatted we're now providing the tools for you to format your show notes you don't want them
formatted then that's fine that's all ballad chase now because I will fix them but at least I can fix
it in one place yeah so it's pretty much posting part I've just posted one show um now I want
what I want to do is just make sure that the report is correct as a final validation so I will
check these subtitles I'll also check it okay I've changed when I do the subtitles now
the transcripts so that that is done as the first thing and put with the show
and that will also help with the preparation of the show notes so show notes come in and it's just
there are no show notes which we quite often get um in shows um it's uptossed to have them
at least we can scan through the transcript and find out okay what was this person talking about
and it's also useful for anti spam checking as well because uh you know somebody we've had
the case where people were taking advantage of us uh put in the first half of the show as a
technical podcast and then the second half as a you know conspiracy theory rant basically so uh
that will help us to just do anti spam measures on the show powinno so you guys usually we wait it
until we've everything transcoded and done before we did that step which means we've wasted an awful
lot of energy and effort on something that we're never gonna post in the first place if you get
my meaning yeah i do i used to do a lot of database stuff uh very complicated database stuff
and uh uh data manipulation with flat files and XML files and json and other stuff but it's
i'm so far out of practice yeah i did uh quote i still do a lot of that uh from our work
not so much xml anymore thing goodness json was such so much to enter
an easier to work with uh especially jq makes life you can just zoom down boom this is the
element that's it's either there or it's not thank you no mess up with namespaces or anything it's
very very clean on a side note i got this ghost pepper spicy chicken flavored cup of rum black
ramen noodles in Thailand um they're made in Malaysia and they are so freaking hot
and i eat super spicy from very very spicy i was in india this year and hi there but
and they have um yeah they have hot stuff but it was really good i really really enjoyed
besides yeah yeah my my job i work with uh um between 70 and 100 contractors that are from south
india and they always make fun of me and tell me i don't know what hot is and uh always tell them
they can laugh at me all they want i know i eat spicy or food than they do and uh i got the uh i
don't know if you've heard of the one ship challenge no uh uh they no longer make it but it comes
in a coffin it's one ship um one individually sealed chip inside of a coffin uh and it like says
stuff like one ship equals death and you know all this stuff all over the box and uh it's made with
the uh carolina reaper pepper and trinidad scorpion and i ate it with about eight people from south
india and my job and it decimated them i didn't fare too well i was fine for about 40 minutes and
then i ate ate a salad with sugary salad dressing and drink a red bowl and just all that sugar
on top of it and being on an empty stomach uh just to burn like crazy in the middle of my test
did it again a year later and was fine and nothing the second time i will say uh uh it was very
hot the first day uh the first few days it was there and then yeah by day like you know a day 10
i was like absolutely fine with yeah yeah uh do you know it's uh uh the the hot spicy hot flavor
it's just uh um chemical it's that the plants creating a biological weapon against mammals eating
them that tricks their senses into thinking they're being burned and and birds are immune to it
from what i breath so the birds will eat them and then go poop their seeds other places and spread
their population yeah kind of makes sense let me just uh move this uh shunuts transcript
plan over for a day he's with me i just need to open grub some more coffee back in a minute
uh we're getting down to what my friend from doing to show us the short rows
morning to see who you are yes my headphones are off though we're uh um stopping to get a room
for the night okay i'll talk to you another time then don't want to intrude on stuff
i'm back now minor yeah well one of my favorite f-troop episodes
has corpular gaurin coming out of the back of a stage coach and he goes up to the target
said serge can i have a vacation from that vacate evidently in a round for the sergeants various
scams and would you work at nights and well um your lady days i just hope you take it easy a little bit
yeah i will can can you see the are you on the jizzi now minor here's the about thirteen dollar
a night um resort motel whatever but we're staying in and then it's got uh
hello the the list fighter i have my um i have to see and you're looking good
oh here's the room again behind that door is what used to be a cooking area and then
this wall is uh the wet bathroom well i've paid more for less stuff in New York City back in the day
okay try this button this push talk yes it is as good news i i try to remember what's
about in that program you get scales all over your suit i do it's um i think it's uh a i
generated artwork i bought it from amazon and it's a colleague i get the mind himself
can i hear you can't hear me i didn't there no when you when you were short in the place i
there i couldn't hear you um the i get the skull beads from napal now um i originally got them from
Tibetan monks and nuns that had fled Tibet in the 80s and their prayer beads i get them in
mollus rosary's purfix my collection i started making bracelets my collection of skulls is one
it's inside here well it looks like we're starting on the uh the second 24 hours of new years
all i knew is i slept cheers y'all and don't worry it's not actually Starbucks this coffee is from
Judas home ground it's wonderful just for your your information i was checking my email and uh
somebody is actually trying to recreate uh arpanette emulation i didn't hear the last part
they're trying to recreate the arpanette in emulation i will honestly say i have no idea what that is
it was the arpa uh govern u.s government project that that was the first packet switching
network in in america the one that eventually converted into being the internet
cutcha it was what happened is that the one i'll go or create it uh i don't think galagor had much to
do with it what's it a gay galagor was wonderful guy well anyway but yeah this was it
arpa had this problem every time they went out and did it research project at some university
or contractor the contractor wanted them to buy a big-ass machine and all of these big-ass
machines were getting pretty expensive and they were islands of themselves so that when you got
image processing from harvard or somewhere that resource couldn't be used without
manually shipping the data to harvard or wherever so what they ended up doing is they said well if
we connect these machines up in a network we can share resources across the country and uh
we don't have to buy everybody a new machine every when they were smart yeah and uh some of
if you heard about the the current reconfiguration of the voyager spacecraft by sending data
over a low-speed link and and basically having it reload its operating system remotely and
reconfigure it remotely these tools the idea for these tools started out with the arpanet
because the many computers used for routing on the arpanet were designed well first the early
generations were in a milled milled mill spec case that was built like a tank so servicing them
was non-trivial also they wanted to send updates to the networking software over the network itself
so that they could so they didn't have to necessarily send send the guy with a paper tape or whatever
to all of these sites scattered across the country and eventually if an arpa machine the network
machines got sick it could request a copy of the operating system for one of the connected
minis that was hooked to it so the network was quite smart in many ways even drove the telephone
company crazy because these people could get error reports and people would people in Boston would
report a link from San Antonio to you know San Diego is flaky you'd better repair that
telephone like how do you know because our system reported it to us makes sense to me anyway
they're now trying to go and make emulations there's a PDB10 emulator which has a front panel
and stuff that runs on a Raspberry Pi and they're trying to to use the extra horsepower of the
Raspberry Pi to run that and the routing which is a Honeywell 316 mini computer which a Raspberry
Pi should also be able to emulate because of the massive horsepower and stuff that's actually
some of the can do these days oh yeah they're they're recreating the old bit net they're recreating
the old deck net from for digital equipment hardware or protocols protocols you've got to remember
that did a lot of this stuff has at least terminus abilities on on Linux to hope to real or
emulated IBM for a deck protocol networking never use a Raspberry Pi but do enjoy them
they're tasty yeah well Ken are we going for for a double header you grab me now I hear you now
okay it was a false idea that was which was from the hands free to just the high fidelity
well I'm glad you started saying that I heard something about Raspberry Pi's and I was
mentioning that I have one of these generation and one of the third generation yeah well
Raspberry Pi's are are good for emulating everything from gaming video game systems to old
big aren't like the PDP 10 PDP 11 and whatnot well somebody's going to going to add to the
PDP 10 emulator a Honeywell 316 emulator so that they can do old school arpanet routing arpanet
protocols proceeded the TCP IP that we know today Mayor you're saying something about that I
woke up at 7.45 Eastern I mean 6.45 Eastern time yeah only I only made it till 11.30 so Archer when
you said they you woke up to hear a Raspberry Pi I thought you were hungry oh I know of course
you haven't had over the year on the Raspberry Pi heavier I think you've put let's uh
again like person pulling somebody's way how I know he's teasing I'm still waking up here
notice I didn't say Irish Scottish or what have you but somewhere in that plan there oh
there was uh something that I read back in the day so I believe it's I guess a little comment
somebody which held a Velcro wallet and you they were visiting Scotland and I said
oh that's a good Scottish pocket it screams when you open it and that my quick question about
your PDP 11 and all your pretty old older computer testing testing may may they quite contrary
okay I don't know go ahead what you thought have you thought about turning your
older computer knowledge into a podcast on a spare here could be a nice series well I don't
actually have that much knowledge about them but um there is a emulation that uh
that I might try to get in touch with uh I would bring the uh sub york demo podcast up
from what I heard last night you have a lot of interesting things to say about that subject I was
really interested in the one about the trains and combining computing I like to hear more about
use the small PDP 11 to emulate the crossbar relay switch that they were using for
running the majority of their layout and it was running model trains back back in the 80s
I believe that same layout has been installed in the MIT museum and due to the tighter security
it's no longer quite so commonly available although I believe they have open houses maybe in
the spring and around Christmas time the technical model railroad was a lot of their switching was
controlled by dials from dial telephone and the related switching equipment we're talking about
using post styling like you might use touch tone today building 20 was also interesting because
the fundamental wiring was to bennop that is to say separate conductors running overhead
and to hook up an outlet or whatever you tap into those overhead conductors and then run your
wires down a conduit or something to an appropriate box this was strictly 40 zero technology but
then again the house that I grew up in originally had two bennop of input somewhere between a 30 amp
and a 60 amp service with Edison bases on both legs of the circuit that is to say you have
in the hot and the cold and these were screw base fuse fuse board that was good it was right next
to the two wire meter in our guest bedroom when we had a upgrade to
breaker panel in the cellar the power company took back the antique meters and I believe they
took the fuse board with it it was really a museum but this house was supposedly built in 1942
and that would make it contemporary with the radar project then mine I think your mic is
front up against your shirt or something and good morning by the way and happy new year good morning
and happy new year to you thanks for that thanks for the heads up are we going for a double
header this new year or what what's the plan no plan is the recording stays going as long as there
are people here talking I'm not going to say that a long I'll be here for it but it'll just keep
going yeah well okay well my folks said a lot of my family was you're not inoculated with a
vitro lead needle so we can talk for as many hours as you'll give us how long did you make it to the
last night morning morning I've I've been running pretty straight through since maybe 11
okay you haven't gotten to bed you haven't got to bed last night I got a little nap
of the of the evening but I've been up and and fill it in did a couple of monologues
so while we were having dinner and generally was ready to meet anybody who showed up so spider you
have an hard time hearing basically trying to make sure it wasn't me he seemed to on jitsi he
seemed to get a hard time hearing but I've noticed on my my headset here the amount of times I've
because I've just left this computer open and been connecting reconnecting and it seems like my
the volume has gone way down on it well I kind of say this year it's been a lot of fun being on
well I believe Morton sees has got a nice room for the night and it's probably going to rest
up for a busy tomorrow get the price for the room was good and we're going to see Moodyang tomorrow
and maybe go ride four wheelers somewhere I don't know that sounds like a lot of fun
well he's got good company I do British understatement pretty well don't I
yeah with that company riding grocery carts would be fun yeah
yeah see yeah now have you ever thought about getting another cat no I I haven't I could use one but
that would mean buying into feeding it house training it or whatever and
hmm also since our last cat lasted about 20 years I may not have one cat I'd hate to leave the cat
high and dry if if the grim reaper decided to cut my string also one thing I've noticed recently is
it seems like vet bills have gone through the roof to the point where it almost feels like they're
trying to push people towards pet insurance yeah never mind the logistics of getting cat food
and cat litter and disposing of the litter and all of that nope and that minor did they ever
figure out when what year that anti-b problem happened we're talking about it
there was an article referencing something like that in 2016 but they never really nailed
the exact year down or anything it's too bad I was trying to have a table based on the show
it's good right now okay I am fixed now for some reason I totally lost hearing this dream
by a power cycle fixed it excellent so what are you drinking there coffee and kind of coffee
what's it called it's French roast coffee but it's BJ's brand French roast coffee got you
I'm drinking home ground horned urine I got a confidence last month and it's wonderful
there's a link in the show notes also I have a tip that I found useful my heating system is basically
hot a static hot water radiators they do not come with their own fans or anything like that
however I found that putting a box fan up against them and turning it on low speed when
when the heat is on it draws more heat out of the radiators in simple convection
sounds logical I have a longer radiator where I may put two box fans that that would
let me come in handy keeping things toast to wouldn't that cold front comes through that
they're predicting later in the month yeah I'm hearing that Britain especially Scotland's
getting battered right now by Arctic winds and such well Scotland takes it on the chin pretty
yeah but not to the extent of edden but I closing down Hogmaly for all the celebrations they
were cancelled and this is unheard of well also if I recall correctly there's there's a bunch of
islands off of Britain that are that that are probably taking it even harder because there's
small islands and surrounded by nasty sea yes I know what was the name of that coffee it's
called his eyes Honduras you find it well I found his eyes hill climber coffee now what type of
coffee is it is a strong coffee or like strength wise how would you rate it towards like a french
row the my yeah okay I am how would you rate it towards like a french roast or you know regular
I don't know coffee heard like me that minute you hear me I hear you all right I hear you
let me soul cider can't hear again is anybody know how to get web browsers to stop asking to
save passwords which way web browser let's start with Firefox I would have to open Firefox first
but I there is a way I think you go into the settings and search for password and I think there's
a checkbox that says prompt for to save passwords all right I can better shut back but I've looked
in the past and I've gotten to the point where I look for it and I don't remember seeing anything
that I can do to shut it off and so I've just basically given up and dealt with every time
I put in a password throwing a big box up saying do you want to save your password no stop please
so the show is over then it is oh I'll stop and restart the recording leave the recording running
any although I think you can stop the stream if you want it's your call yeah I don't let it go
restart at the stream restart at the recording on me okay I'm going to process these
shows I hope you're sending and I'll take down the announcement page okay I'm also saving the
mumble chas log so that we have that okay thank you I found out honky were you fine I just
pasted in the show notes it's about preferences about privacy preferences and privacy all right
check the show notes oh I found it thank you I've seen security tab just look off as to say
passwords nice you'll leave the link on the main page now sleep at there for another day let's see
I see where now welcome to after show okay bloody with the Virginia nexus sorry I can't help myself
yeah it's okay so honky magu just you were talking about coffee earlier and my mumble dropped my
sound once again yeah back on my phone okay the system settings were all fine this mumble would not
go to my headset weird so I was mostly asking what the type of coffee is it is like a strong coffee
or is it a little bit of a bit of air fee and it must say for Americans quite air fee it's a mountain hill
growing so it's very high up there it gets a lot of sun there's a web page about it his eyes and
jurors I found me at web page good yeah I met the boy who actually grew up at a conference
nice sorry about that that was very rude my apologies what do you do I took the piss out of
somebody's accent oh that's it that's normal yes it's yes it is I will punish myself I will throw
myself against the wall shortly you'll be speaking double that's in yeah there you go right you now
have a free pass to pull the piss out of my accents thank you very much I don't do the double
that say jump rope no because I don't want to do anything you want for walking heat this morning
and now I just want to know something I have to go into work today so it's my job is reporting
officer in the the at the food bank I try and go in and do monthly reports and it's great when
the end of the month has a day like today with when nobody is working yeah yeah because I
do a lot of snapshot reports which have to be done between the between the people actually doing
stuff I think it's like how much their pounds we have on hand per location by category all the
kind of stuff and people are constantly doing orders and picking that changes all the time oh yeah
things gets nice and quiet yeah okay what just happened my screen suddenly cleared and went
completely white from the top down what has happened but I had opened a same thing on a
over a necessary age session and the next window is now open Firefox for me so well you mean
you mean to see the tech problems happen to tech people yeah yes definitely and
basically been my life for the last week and you finish off some stuff and then I'll get back
here with my friend so time to see if I'm so alive well if you're not I'm in trouble
this is the first wrong year of the data and I have a you go keep log of my blood pressure
and of course I start off with two or two four no two two five
this is the time of year if you're time traveler that you should come back in time you know
as you can go up to people and go what here is this again
right now it's up before all right I'm gonna go eat something
um I'll check back here later if uh nobody's on I'll trip the stream down but thank you thank you
everybody for participating um I've any time I've been on it's been a lot a lot of fun and uh
if I don't talk to you guys later I'll talk to you again next year we get to do it all over again
all right good night honky oh good night honky and I'll talk to you Friday Friday make sure you watch the
movie uh okay what is the movie this time is I don't know what I'm gonna watch it yeah it is I
should have updated it in the matrix so I'll go check there man it was mined it's available free
on uh to be all right happy new year everybody happy new year also good night archer can and
soulless spider good night sleep tight take it easy is anybody else tried jelly fin for movies and tv
no one is jelly fin it's a free open source uh thing that are backhand forward to
displaying tv uh movies and tv it was a really easy setup actually just a quick program and you
stepped up when you browser sorry if I stop I'm kind of sick so stop once so long I just didn't
want to do it in your ear oh looks kind of cool basically Netflix but local oh yeah yeah you don't
have to worry about your internet provider going down like we have actually have a lot
cool make an episode of not thanks see what I did there yeah I see what you did but uh talk to
that minor he needs the yeah I guess uh I guess a lot of interesting really there was well what I
heard a lot is a lot of interesting or really computing to uh knowledge to give okay more coffee
is culture good night good bye so archer I've been doing effing backwards today sorry what was that
so I've been doing effing backwards today I go up this morning and first thing I did was check out
the stream then make coffee drawing the stream and uh then I remember to take my blood pressure
in my pills and now I've just did my tut in my pores for the morning yeah well I check the stream
first and get my coffee and I still haven't come in it's okay I mean this is sponsored to me on
their master and said H.P.I does live shows oh wait who missed it did somebody miss the live show
I'll then uh to go check over there you see a response to my tut I haven't been over on
for a little while that's your problem that's not the first thing I think of when I get up I don't
want to think what you think of first yeah mind you so am I still alive and going check my blood pressure
yeah I probably should check my blood pressure once in a while just to see if I am on uh
medication can I have it you know it's it's funny this ice as soon as I go into the doctor
you know oh that's normal that's wake up people yes yeah that's it so one of the guests one of
our friends who was at the the gathering last night it's actually um uh cardiology doctor UK
for kids so he works more with kids with holes in the heart and things like that but I was telling him
what I've been being tested for he's actually he's actually quite concerned like there's no
no no it's okay it's it's only testing just to make sure I'm okay yeah but he's one of these
wonderful guys that works for kids so there's an episode I need to see something on bone repair
for uh digit dog walking socially yeah just uh greetings from my morning walk I need to mute again
as it's windy here George was a wonderful voice wonderful excellent yes yes yes I am here I am
yeah doing my morning walk from Panera drinking cold water in my cold hands it's like 40 times
so you beat the Panera yeah I just left my friend John off one of the Panera things he goes
a different direction and I just walked straight down uh uh down towards beach so we just left
target because he had to get bananas so orange yeah so you're heading to Pete's bar
I'm waiting to know no it's the other direction I'm heading to Huali World uh
where I'll walk around I think in the first bar get warmed up uh Pete's bar is turned into a
ritzy place now it's no longer a dive it's super expensive I can't get my two dogs and I remember
you mentioned that we still have a dive bar right next to but our workplaces move too no depth bar
here but there is ambulances going down each boulevard right now yay well we're glad we can keep
accompanying you walk well one of my friends Alan is going in they do the polar bear jump
I'm the year's day so he's going to jump in the Atlantic so it's nice like probably 30
inches in waters yay that was for you yeah stop my heart but if I took what I did do I would
join him no I do like cold water so while George is walking down the boulevard I'm going to walk
kitchen and get some more coffee and sausage rolls I almost feel like a street walker the way you
just said that anyways aren't you one every morning around 5 5 30 a.m. till about 7 30 or so
finally make it home after my at least you're quiet and still waiting to find you exactly you
always know what my stalker knew what to find me archers or such a thing is eating two
minute sausage rolls I may bounce on and off because I just walked into a while they were on the
Wi-Fi I just want to go on and secure Wi-Fi what you've been coding so you be a bank code again
also need your pin number peter there's no such thing as too many sausage rolls I'm glad we're
all the same mind yes but I think it's going to be almost this morning now one of those mornings
drinking my second mug of coffee it's hot you need us what I need by the picture
so I need a thing to eat to talk and yes you do it up get in stock coffee absolutely everyone needs
job in their life my cousin knew I need those Christians so I'm drinking it with Starbucks mug
but as you know it's not Starbucks actually it's one of the best mugs I've ever had for drinking coffee
George I'm size 3x he found a pjs for me in woolly world yeah I just uh oh Neil's voicing
in the opinion by the way you can hear him in the background I heard Neil the first time
I've ever heard him yes oh he's coming up on the bed maybe he'll call no he's not going to talk
anymore I was um playing with um what interacting is a better word with Martin the cat at
Jack and Lin's house last night it's a black and white cat a relative a young and a way quite
still a little bit final um but he's adapting to being in the house he loves to chase bottle tops
on the ground and Indiana was having way too much fun with that using the red dot projector we were
trying to I wasn't sure if the push to talk went on um we found on Amazon there's this it looks
like the cat shape and it automatically uses the red dot and you'd seem so like that
so Archer and uh Jack and Lin's other pet is an older dog called Scarlet like a Jack Russell
uh but they had to hide it out we upstairs last night because one of the guests that has horses
and Scarlet just absolutely backs a head off of this lady why does she bark her head off it's
because she doesn't like the smell of the horses yes sorry mid cop I didn't cover them like
yeah the horse smell must be on her quite often well she she attends the horses daily so Scarlet
dog gay detects that and just absolutely barks we have a friend back north that has two horses
she attends to them every day too runs them and that she has a great Danes two great Danes now
in an apartment they like to run with the horses their horses themselves they're so great Danes
in an apartment wow oh yeah and then a cat or two she was our neighbor for at least eight years I
think and we've knew her one oldest dog as um maybe step up I'm gonna go grab some coffee
okay it is cold here it's like 46 right here it's cold yeah I'm here in your church
so my uh weather report says it's currently minus 2c well holy holy holy not doing that
anymore welcome to Kentucky yay and I am going into my work office today as well
how dare you how dare you work out just walking around while they were old
but I get to work with nobody else's in the building it's great it's awesome yeah you can
you can do things you know like destroy worlds if you wanted to I bet you don't run about naked
door because they do have cameras I mean can't you disable them I mean if you wanted to run around
I'm not gonna do anything I probably have the ability but yeah I want to keep my job
of course this is being streamed live and recorded unless they stop they may have stopped
fast I ended up not I'm not saying anything wrong no but if you were gonna admit that you're
gonna walk around all naked and all I said I could I never said I would you you should I think
you said you're gonna I got hurt that so I'm not
there's no way we're all splitting together that you wait we had his talk yes
oh everything's 75% off on all the Christmas stuff while he
take a look around anything I need or require probably you can you can buy cat a whole bunch of
Christmas toy to to destroy she does she does like to murder like stuff to it pick up some of
these micro LED yeah I was telling Arthur about Martin the cat and my friend's house last night
Martin has this green picque that Martin likes to murder I'm gonna run up and get a basket I
left one somewhere but there's enough for me to you know not want to carry them in a hand
I used to be silly made if I got a sharpened card you know you're gonna fill it well again
sharpened card you're gonna fill it regardless they sell like the Christmas LEDs and that plastic cases
they become panel lights and older radios but a couple of resistors attached
so have you ordered my TQs I have I didn't what you say they didn't have my size and stuff but
did you order them for me um they're in the children section
I'm almost positive so you're telling me you didn't even you you're telling me you didn't even ask
I'm not gonna go in the children's section find somebody and ask them if they have that in a
men would you say 3xL yeah I got to get funny like yeah I got yeah I'm almost positive
yeah that would be pretty funny over the other Ted and his crew going into the the laundry section
yeah that that's just like very similar to that
yeah that's like is that shooting uh that's somebody hammering I think in one of these they've
been remodeling this door for a while so you saw my advert for the public sabotaging for
employers employment you know what I mean if you get you a discount on a sub they're going to
open right across from the feedback they've already been excellent donors and the last come my
months we've all do semi semi truckloads full of fresh projects it's really good fresh
projects I actually really enjoy there there are a lot of their stuff I actually get to have really
I'm not their brand but they they do sell hummus and it's really good I can't get a brand it's not
tried it's like one of those a couple and they have a caramelized onion awesome
okay like none of the other stores sell sell this stuff that's actually really good
you're like you're ready for harmonized onion yeah regular oh regular hummus
yeah but they have these deals like everyone says they're super expensive so people will shop
elsewhere I'm always like I don't know if you've looked but uh they do have like they'll have
to buy one get one the bogos stuff so it's three dollars for hummus so it turns into a buck 50
so it's cheaper than buying it even at wallet so I was like I don't know why wouldn't shop it
public cool things they moved all the Christmas stuff is that we're either mind you do one time to
get the second case of beer that was two for one yeah yeah so they and I didn't think about it
because you know I like most other places don't have bogos and but publics does and they always
have pretty decent bogos uh so yeah always get more ideas I mean I still have like the other
coil pack and some extra loose ones laying around because you know me with IPA
but those are still in most yeah we need after we need after to come and visit you to drink it down
uh yeah he might like the engine 13 place up the road here one of the one of the big ones here
and then push you up I think I think he's actually stepped over here and I was trying to tease him
I do like the dude's brown nose ale and that's legal um and I actually have a good
good bone meal it is nice yeah Glenn uh Glenn from uh uh second costume he's been down here and he's
had that actually I think he brought back a case of it uh but back um there's a blonde beer
brought some of that back too I don't know what he brought back but he brought back he filled
his trunk with beer I know that local brewery is that yeah one of my favorite belgian beers that can't
one of my favorite uh belgian beers that kevi also like is uh called McToof MCCHOUFFE
which is a Belgian brown beer it's actually quite nice yeah I don't feel like belgian
so I usually just like the uh the pedals and the lights the lasers and piles and
yeah there's lego and there's lego oh I found something for the cat she might like it's a reindeer
and a pink suit it's only going to be a quarter oh and there's a teddy bear she might
yeah I get it star wars the knees but you know me I don't know star wars from Star Trek
worst nerd ever which is one of the themes to one of my future podcast worst nerd ever
I posted um I was writing notes while I was trading the other day and with my little notebook it
like possible subject one of those worst nerd ever
so George what happened in New Orleans that's horrible I just found out it was what happened in
New Orleans up in May oh yeah I read about that was that para I found this spider man thing it's
a pes dispensary it's got both the black and normal spider man I don't know it's got four pes I'm
gonna scan it this year in the places that's down it's all like hard and I'm mutilated so I'm
suck on this story as well as as well as boring people die when he was shooting it please hope it's
at the same time wow yeah gun gun violence out of control new events that's all
totally oh this is not giving me a price it must be free oh it's three dollars it could stay
okay way too much money wait okay I'm gonna count out of just say because nobody else is using it
yeah I went in once when I was walking around yesterday that's nobody was really doing anything
in there anyways most people have their cameras off and there was like three people in there or
something so I decided not to stay in just it's a good option if you want to do camera stuff
but it's not you know it wasn't my first choice I to me this is kind of more memorable doing it
I like mumble mumble's classic it's oh it's good I sit up my own mumble server
people say I mumble time it's good that I have a mumble server because I can always test before
I mean I know they have the test thing but I can always test before coming in I just connect to my
server and make sure it's working correctly yeah I think maybe before you came in this time I was
having problems with mumble on my learning system and I would hear on my wireless headset and
suddenly I wouldn't it hadn't changed any settings it is I couldn't hear anything and so and
I'll say all the settings what seemed fine are you using pulse what do you use it I'm using the
but ultimately it's fire where where wherever they call it yeah yeah the new one which is back but you
get you know so you select pulse in the mumble yeah yeah so I mean it works fine all I had to do
is keep adjusting for the headset and the the microphone I was using I had to keep I had to keep
that open on the side because you just no way to really fully adjusted you're going to just like
the volume levels but you can't adjust that's why I'm using more that's why I'm not using the
android app a lot less things I'm using the android one because I'm out in the bow
but that makes sense I think I'm leaving before I buy too much things I'm sure I heard something about
everything's going down at 90% I look forward to seeing you all be interested in taking coffee
right now it's just a bunch of lights and then I'm cannibalizing for LEDs for radio repairs
they're not going up as actual Christmas that works they make good they make good
five and six volt replacement lights with some resistance on them that would be a good HBR show
George it would be if I I mean I would probably need pictures and stuff and you know repairing old
radios and whatever I probably should do a YouTube channel or something but I don't know I watch
enough of it there's a couple guys in Australia I watch repair radios all the time it's like
ASMR to me one called David Tipton who's pretty good there's old Australian radios
and I usually end up grabbing some what are they British ones I usually sometimes want to
go over there but usually I shift them back where I get the shift through Etsy for repairs I
do a bunch of rubber tree stuff I'm repairing on and off that's about it yeah
everything's now Valentine's Day where they could
so all too Valentine's yeah don't tell me where you're getting me
all the media checking line check it I am you know what I'm going to get you for
for Valentine's Day I'm just yeah donut hole I'm getting you the hole in the donut
that sounds good well not the actual donut hole that's my lines that are
yeah what they hold donut holes in store it makes no sense because the round but the donut hole
is actually like I work less hey how's it going happy me years nice Sam yeah
didn't party too much you're here at work today huh yes
all right let's see how much all this stuff is possible
let's see how much the $1.98 cat it turns out to be
okay 50 cents
24 cents so it is ringing up on sale someone I actually tell
that's good
yeah
yeah I guess it is $1.49 it's going to be $6 for sale wow
all right yeah those are the E7
trying to do the quick maths in the head quick math
all this stuff is getting turned into a cannibalized Ellie
I don't know why I'm doing this because last year it was like crack on two
but you never know I mean they go up and price or we have somebody uh
tariff the world and then we end up paying the tariff
and I can't get far going there
I know I will stop I think everything ring up on sale I'm going to use my
Wallyworld app to pay for everything so I leave there
I don't think I will use my Walmart pay while I have tariff
I have Google call
all the things I have all the things
don't care I got my credit like that so nobody can destroy my life too much
I'm not going to have to stop it so I'm doing it
I will give you five stuff
all right yeah
when I hear google
i have to remove that
specifically
it's definitely
actually
but I have no guess
I told one
that
I told one
that
I told one
that
I told one
that
I told one
that
is
I know
is
is
right
and
is
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
as
I don't know how dare this thing disconnecting, let me get a clue.
I wonder why you're quiet.
I know, that's very rare that I'm quiet.
So I'm currently changing, and that's all I'll see.
Don't go to change, to drive.
It has been good morning to you guys, she's slowly wicking up.
Hello, I'm walking around, I've been walking around to about 505 this morning, I think
a 510 this morning.
I don't know, a netminer can tell you.
I don't know what to do.
I do as you would tell you to give the bed.
Well, I went to bed, myself, I went to bed before midnight, because my PTSD does not like
fireworks, and that's all I was hearing online today.
Oh, I had said on it, lay down for a bit.
Next thing you know, it's like three in the morning, I'm hearing what sound like gun
jobs, which is still fireworks.
And cat isn't bad, but like, like if you like make that stop, I'm like, I can't
do it.
Yeah, I can't.
Yeah, we were in Georgetown, we were in Georgetown Kentucky after midnight, and we were driving
home to Lexington and seeing fireworks go off everywhere.
Okay, I've left in the bedroom.
Okay, myself ready to go work.
Georgia, so with us?
Yeah.
I'm going to walk through that construction area, I posted the second talk in my phone.
So again, walking through the afternoon and Sunday, I'm going to cut it for that.
We did the haul of feet full of art.
So they put it, I don't know, I hope this is a temporary walkway, but they have a walkway
with that orange safety fence.
So we don't get killed by things, I guess, I don't know.
That's a good thing.
They've been standing in the road, they can pull Walmart's turn into that, they could target
them.
So I'm trying to make it a thrilling highway or something, it's too late.
Highway.
Well, it's not really a highway, it's a pole.
It's so much, I can't see the views.
Oh, never good old.
I get, when did this put my shoes on?
I think as soon as I get home, I've been talking to you guys for a minute or three.
I'm probably going to put my head down on a pillow and catch a couple more z's.
I only got about three hours sleep last, four hours.
Sounds like a plan.
Actually, I'm going to log off now and go ahead off the work.
All right, you going to work?
I'm probably going to disconnect soon anyway, so I'll just ride this out until I get home.
Okay, I'll give it in, I'll give it in, I'll kiss for you.
I'll also eat if you want.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kiss is for me and, you know, I don't know, MDK is for my cat.
I don't know.
Okay, take care, George.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
It's the end.
How's everybody doing this morning?
Happy New Year, gang.
It was a great, great New Year's Eve show.
I'm looking forward to an awesome 2025 with lots of episodes for Hacker Public Radio
and another, at the end of 2025, another New Year's show.
Hopefully we can keep this going.
Have a wonderful year, everybody, and a wonderful January 1st.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does a work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it means.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
