Episode: 4448
Title: HPR4448: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4448/hpr4448.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:48:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4448 for Wednesday the 20th of August 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 Hash 4.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahuka and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is part 4 of my list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahuka, welcome you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
This one is coming out of the Reserve Q.
So you know what that means.
It means Hacker Public Radio is low on shows and you need to do something.
This is a community project.
It will only last as long as the community continues to provide the shows.
One has been very clear that when we stop supplying shows, this whole thing will come
to an end.
I don't really want that to happen.
I'm assuming if you are subscribed, you don't want that to happen.
Because if you wanted it to happen, why would you be subscribed?
That doesn't make any sense at all.
So you know, record a show.
It's not hard.
Only once recorded a show by simply clipping my Sandisk MP3 player to the collar of my shirt
and it had a setting for record.
So I just pressed the record, talked for a little bit, downloaded the file onto my computer.
It was that simple.
That was a perfectly acceptable show too.
I know because it played on Hacker Public Radio and nobody complained about sound quality
or anything.
So please do record one.
It's not hard.
Now continuing, I'm now going to hit a number of cruise related channels that I subscribe
to on YouTube.
And the reason is very simple.
My wife and I are retired and one of the things we love to do in retirement is travel.
We've reached the point in our lives where we don't need more stuff.
We've got all the stuff we're ever going to need at this point.
So other than shopping for groceries, we're pretty much set.
And the one thing that we would love to have more of is experiences.
And I think that's a big deal for us.
Now we did travel for a few winters in an RV and that became a nice series on Hacker
Public Radio.
We've done a lot of other traveling as well.
But one of the things that we do enjoy doing is taking a cruise from time to time.
So the first channel, I'm going to run through these quickly because they're really fairly
similar.
First one is called cruise addicts.
Another one is called cruise fever.
cruise hive, which is a daily, about like a two minute to three minute news program.
Cruise news today, which is also a daily two to three minute cruise program.
And then cruisely, C-R-U-Z-E or Z-E-L-Y.
So those are all cruise related channels.
If you are interested in taking a cruise, that might be something you'd want to look
into.
Otherwise, yeah, that's fine.
You don't have to share my interests in everything.
The next channel is culture sonar, which is kind of an interesting one.
The main focus of it is music, and particularly music from my growing up.
So the 60s and 70s.
But it's not just music.
There can be other cultural things that they decide to take a look at.
So I enjoy the channel and look forward to anything that comes through there.
They've also got an email newsletter that I subscribe to, some good stuff.
Now the next channel, D-Day 24 Hours.
If you are into World War II history, and I am into World War II history, what they
did here is they did a 24 hours of D-Day in kind of a real time history approach.
So they started at 3 a.m. with, well, what was happening at 3 a.m. on June 6th.
And what we know is that airplanes were taking off and paratroopers were being dropped and
gliders, et cetera, well then, you know, what happened at 4 a.m.
So the next hour long program would cover the events from 4 a.m. on to 5 and then another
program at 5 a.m. and so, you know, it was 24 hours of programming to cover 24 hours
of actual time, absolutely fascinating.
Now, this was done by the same people who do the World War II channel.
They do fantastic stuff.
It's called Time Ghost and they do a lot of this kind of real time history stuff.
So if you're interested, check them out.
But this D-Day 24 hours in particular was great and it was really nice to have all of
that background when we made a trip to France some months back.
And I got to visit the Normandy.
We went to Utah Beach, went to the museum there, went to Pointe-Hawk and then to the American
cemetery.
And it was nice because I understood what all of those things represented very nice.
Next one, David Pakman.
This is another news slash politics podcast and he'll release a lot of short ones during
the day and then occasionally some longer ones.
Now, I have to tell you, some of these, like if they're like a news slash politics thing
and they release an hour long program, I probably don't bother and I don't have that many
hours in the day and that's not necessarily how I want to spend them.
But you know, the fact that you've got a subscription to a channel doesn't mean you have to watch
every single thing that they put on that channel.
You know, what happens is I get a notification that there's something there and I take a
look at it.
Sometimes I play a minute or two and say, eh, not interested.
Sometimes I just look at how long it is and say, no, I don't want to.
So you curate your own feed.
The next one is Davies Media.
Mike Davies, those of you who followed my GIMP series know that I got a lot of my information
from Mike Davies and he has a channel he publishes videos about GIMP and lately the news has
been about they're gearing up to the 3.0 major release of GIMP.
They've been 2.2 point for a few years now and any day now it looks like the 3.0 release
is going to come out and that's kind of interesting.
And Mike Davies keeps me up to date on all of that stuff which I appreciate.
Then there's a channel called Davis.
This is another one of the Doctor Who channels.
Davis is another one of those people who talks about and reviews different programs or
different topics involving Doctor Who.
Then there's a channel called Deep Cuts.
This is a music channel and as the name implies they try to go beyond just the big hits
and dig into some of the lesser known stuff or the stuff that doesn't get so much publicity.
And I find it interesting.
This fellow does not release a ton of content.
I've gone six or eight months between videos from him but I've enjoyed the ones I've
watched.
And again, if he picks a topic I don't care about.
If he starts talking about electronic dance music I don't care about electronic dance
music.
I don't think I'm ever likely to.
At my age I don't need to experience something that borrows me.
So I don't.
But the ones that some of the ones he gets into he starts talking about Miles Davis or
John Coltrane or the police or whatever.
What I'm interested in.
Now the next one is called Deep Look.
This is a science channel.
And basically what they do is they take as the name says Deep Look.
They take a deep look at some particular aspect of science or frequently biology and something
that maybe you had never noticed before or never paid attention to.
Then there's Deep Sky videos.
This is a space related video channel.
Deep Sky might imply that.
So you're going to get a lot of deep space videos.
We have telescopes now that can basically go almost to the start of the universe.
It's kind of amazing how much we can see from these things.
So it's an interest of mine.
And so I've got this channel.
Next one is called Discussing Network.
Now I first found them as a Doctor Who podcast called Discussing Who.
And then realize they had a video channel as well.
Don't get a ton of content on that.
Mostly I just get the podcast.
But I've got it on here because occasionally they do.
Frequently what it is is that they're announced that they're going to be doing a podcast.
And here's when we're going to do it.
And if you want to tune in and submit comments, whatever you can do it, you know, they do it
on their channel and then record the audio at the same time and then put the audio out
as the audio podcast.
Now there's a specific channel that they have as well called Discussing Trek,
which I have subscribed to separately.
And because I've been getting into Star Trek lately, I picked up a box set of the original
series that we've been working our way through.
And now I saw most of those back in the 1960s when they're originally broadcast.
I saw a number of them in syndication.
And yeah, is the original series sort of look low budget compared to current?
Yeah.
But, you know, so does the original Doctor Who.
And the thing is, if you have good stories, it doesn't matter how great your special
effects are.
At least that's my opinion.
I love great stories and, you know, the original series of Star Trek had some great, well-known,
famous science fiction authors writing episodes for them.
So it's worth paying attention to.
I've also got, by the way, a box set of Star Trek, the next generation which we can move
to when we finish with the original series.
Now, the next channel I want to mention is called Doctor Oho's Adventures.
And that's another Doctor Who series.
So Doctor Oho is like Doctor Who with the W replaced by an O.
Why that is?
I don't know.
Science fiction fans in general are just slightly strange.
They're my people.
And that brings me then to the official Doctor Who channel from the BBC, which is called
Doctor Who.
And that's nice because you will get announcements of things, trailers, additional
content of various kinds.
So it's worth subscribing to for that.
And the next one I want to mention is a fellow named Don Ross.
Now Don Ross is a finger-style guitarist.
He's Canadian.
He's a fantastic guitarist.
And he travels and he performs a lot in Europe.
So if you are in England or Germany or what have you, you might have a chance to see him
perform.
And it is worth it, he's very good.
And he has a channel and occasionally he does concerts on that channel, which is nice.
I think pretty much I might be missing one or two of his CDs, but it's a fairly substantial
part of that shelf, his music.
And I think I'll finish it up with one more cruise-related one called Don's Family Vacations.
This is a guy Don Terris, who has a travel agency or works with a travel agency.
I'm not entirely clear on the business relationships here, but does a lot of cruising, runs a lot
of group cruises, stuff like that.
And so he gives cruise news, commentary on things going on involving cruising.
And so it is something that if you were interested in that sort of thing, you might enjoy his
channel.
And so I think that's enough for one episode.
This is Hookah, signing off and is always encouraging you to support FreeSoftware.
Bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0
International License.
