Episode: 4209
Title: HPR4209:  HPR New Years Eve Show 2023 - 24 ep 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4209/hpr4209.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:30:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,200 and 9 for Thursday the 19th of September 2024.
Today's show is entitled, HP Our New Years Eve Show 2023-24-8.
It is hosted by Humkey Magoo and is about 79 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HP Our Community Comes Together to Converse.
It's a shame though. I mean, had this chat before, but with a few times with whoever, but I mean,
it should be more mainstream, really, I think. That's top of the next.
If you include a Chromebook, then fine, it's got the desktop market and we're already there,
but beyond that, no, it's still a bit of a niche thing, isn't it?
Whereas it's what every other tech market that matters.
So there's AI, space, robots, but yeah, super computers.
Drink machines.
What was Dream Machines?
Drink machines.
Drink machines, you say?
Yeah, they got all the ones.
We've got a little bit of the drink comes out.
Yeah, they got a little Linux system in there that calls home when they run out of money,
although they run out of drinks.
Yeah, I guess so, possibly.
Well, I was the ones we put money in and the cans come, or the ones we...
Yeah, that's the same.
But all the other types of drinks are seen.
We've got a button in the restaurant where the drink comes out into your glass, yeah.
No, not that.
The cans.
The cans.
The machines, yeah.
But even though I was a while ago, now I was in the shopping center,
and they got those help little kioskings,
which we want to find a shop, they're two way to go.
And they got in the shopping center.
And they got what?
And the thing is shit itself, and how did Linux message on it?
Something had happened.
They say, you know, the computer screens they have around the shopping centers
and give you a map.
So you want to go to a certain shop, you type in the shop name,
and it shows you where it is.
I don't know if you've got big shopping...
We've got some big shopping centers here at the horrendous.
But one of those stopped working, and the text on the screen was Linux.
It was Linux.
You could see some Linux text in there, which was quite good.
Well, was that help that?
Helping.
Help screened.
Yeah, you know, the information kiosk or something, you'd probably call it.
So it was just a computer screen with a touch screen.
I've seen a...
Here we've got bus stops.
And on a lot of the bus stops now, there's like a screen at the top
where it's supposed to tell you when the bus is coming.
And the next bus and so on and so forth.
And yeah.
But I remember seeing one in the city where it wasn't showing quite like it should have done.
Because actually I saw a start menu, a window start menu on the top of the screen as well.
Sort of thing.
Yeah, it says this.
It's like, oh, one's windows, doesn't it?
Okay.
This one had Linux stuff in there.
But all the ATM, the banks used to run Windows CE, apparently.
A long time.
They've only just recently upgraded them.
I don't know what they've done.
But for a long time, they were running Windows CE.
Yeah.
Well, they could run that or Linux.
Posts.
Yeah, and better than Linux.
Linux is all over the place.
Set for that person's...
What annoys me really as well was how like they...
You like the health care system here.
For example, the NHS.
Yeah.
Every health you've had.
I didn't ask you this already.
I said, what's NHS and you said, yeah.
Right.
So, yeah, the health care system, national health service.
Yeah.
And obviously they're storing like, you know,
people with medical records and so on and so forth.
Yeah.
So some information that's supposed to be confidential, really.
Yeah.
A very people patient, whatever.
It's ladies.
Yeah.
They're storing it in Windows.
You know, one of the most insecure operating systems.
Well, it might never improve a Windows 10 and 11 to be fair.
I don't know enough about that.
But generally speaking, one of the most insecure operating systems
when it's on the internet, I would say.
And it's like you're storing my personal data on it.
And not just that other things.
Health care, whatever.
You're storing my personal data on one of the most insecure operating systems.
Internet connectors as well.
And it's like, why?
And then also there was an attack a few years back.
Coming bought the big one.
Oh, shell shot could be some, some, some, some, some nasty malware
had leaked out maybe from them.
Maybe it was for America, actually, security people.
But something got out there and and shouldn't have been an attack
various companies and websites and whatever.
And our national sales service was majorly attacked by this.
But it turned up.
There was still running a lot of Windows X feed computers
even though they had paid for updates for a while.
And then apparently they stopped paying the,
did I like extended support as well?
Because millions of pounds.
And it's a bit like you could have gone deluxe on some of this
and save money, but of course not, because you don't have the IT people
or the people that are willing to set this up.
Also a bit like Munich in Germany in 2004, I believe it was.
Their city council was like, right, we're going to, we're going to,
we don't want, we're going to try and save some money
along where maybe we'll get freedom or whatever.
But we're going to go to Linux and they switched things over
to think they had their own version based on a bunch who slightly
maybe and leave office as well.
And for a good 10 years, I think it stayed like that.
But then maybe somebody has changed it back to Windows eventually.
But it's this sort of thing.
It's like, why, why do, why are you spending money on Windows?
And that's the other thing.
When it's a council or government or whatever to see council
or national health service or whatever that.
I mean, it's the taxpayer's money that's being spent on the,
on the IT services.
So if they've gone Linux and maybe you have to train people slightly,
but you know, you could have potential when it already could on
servers or somebody, some of it, they could have potentially saved
some money even or in the longer run.
But of course not.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, they could waste it somewhere else.
I would argue they spend.
They're not motivated to save money.
They're at low risk.
So the low risk option is to use what even all users and that's Windows.
So that's the path I got.
Yeah, buying the buying to the Microsoft world.
Yeah, it's easy for them.
Why would they, why would they stress themselves out trying to do
something different?
I think that's basically it isn't there.
Even though you have to pay for Microsoft and pay whatever and do
whatever, but and even knowing the long run then they have to do
an upgrade and it's like, oh, I don't think Windows is inherently
less secure.
I think most of the security problems with people, people's behavior.
Like you said, they'll be running an old old system or they hadn't
kept up their updates or someone had done some sloppy access
management.
I know of company.
Yeah.
Like the route and the normal user account with Linux or the pseudo
with a bunch who are then the, you know, the same kind of fit out there
because if you have, if you run admin in Windows, you give it, you give
it's like full power to everything, including all of the program
that you're installing or viruses or whatever.
But if you, if you go and give yourself a limited account in Windows
where you don't need to have admin.
So actually it becomes suddenly quite a bit more secure.
But people don't want, but people don't really think like that or
enough of them realize actually, yeah.
So if I, if I'm only admin when I need to install a program or do
something like that, then I become admin otherwise I run it with
a limited account, a limited privilege.
Then I should be quite a bit more secure.
And that's how the Linux world works with obviously like I just said
with the root account that you, again, you're not supposed to run the
root account all the time.
Also, they say because of full power and what you could potentially do.
And when the case of Ubuntu, they put pseudo, or less you, and then
distributes like that instead as well.
But people don't, and someone said to me that yeah, you could probably
run Windows if you did it like this.
We're, let's say a school enough web browser.
Do this, do the operating system update.
Sure, but you probably won't need a lot of virus actually.
If you, if you're very, you know, careful where you get the software from.
And that's probably true as well.
And that's another one anti virus is a bit of a caution because I mean,
what's your impact on that anyway?
And it could be too late because we're doing it.
Doing what it's going to do.
But yeah, that's things like this as well.
One thing that is handy with Microsoft is having multiple access to
the same document.
So this number of times I'm on a,
a team's call and multiple people are into a powerpoint.
No, I'm just saying what?
You're all on a team's call.
They're all editing the same powerpoint document at the same time.
Or, you know, it could be a word document, whatever thing.
Does Excel number two document, what was that?
We're all editing it at the same time, live, online.
So it's actually quite good.
And within the past, you had to, you know, do your updates, email it,
or put it on a file server somewhere here.
And then someone else would get it and do their updates and put it back.
And then you always had some clown who would update it,
update a version in the middle.
So you had two versions being updated at the same time.
Whereas now you put it on, what do they call it?
What's on teams?
But it's SharePoint in the back end.
And you and I can both go in the same powerpoint file and
it's literally updating it at the same time, the same time.
Oh, yeah, there's a few websites where things like that,
where, yeah, you can work on the same document text file,
or maybe it also, also some Maria Sloucher or whatever,
but like spreadsheet or, yeah, yeah, you can just log on to the same thing
and be like, hey, we're both working on this together.
Yeah, that's quite good.
That's when that started using that at work.
That's when I thought, yeah, this is actually,
which does make sense.
It's a work on file like that together.
Yeah, it's a big.
Everyone can in the workflow.
Whereas in the past, all the changes were like just,
I viewed them as change for the sake of change,
a tweak a few menus or something and make things look a bit different,
but they're really were effectively the same thing.
But that was a significant change when they introduced that.
And we use it a lot.
Maybe Linux has got an equivalent thing, I don't know.
I don't know about it if there is something.
Well, when I was in one of these distro projects
during helping out with marketing a bit
and the documentation maybe or whatever,
I mean, I remember that was, I've got a blog post.
I mean, this is just a text file short,
but we're working on blog posts.
So she put loads of stuff on one of these sites
where you can basically log on to the same thing
and then work on the file together.
If it's we're based, I suppose it would be similar.
Which is this is a clear based solution.
And you can see that edit.
We're based on edit and do things.
And you know, check you back to an old version of document maybe.
Yeah.
It's a bit like Wikipedia.
Well, I wasn't Wikipedia, but I mean,
that's a bit like that too.
People can edit there and change things
and go back to old versions and things.
You know, what I have noticed with my work computer is
a lot slower than what it used to be.
It used to be very snappy.
And now, obviously, every time I do something,
it's going off to the cloud somehow.
And often it you click on something
and it doesn't tell you what it's doing.
It doesn't say it's anything.
It just you think nothing's happened.
So you click on it again and it can get a bit frustrating.
But I think it's because it's communicating with the cloud.
Some serve in the cloud more often than what it used to.
Doing a whole lot less work on the actual device itself.
And that's a bit frustrating.
I mean, it's not that great here.
I've got a microwave radio link to my neighbor
who's about three kilometers away.
And then they've got about a 10 kilometer microwave radio link
from their place to a hotel.
I know, it seems to be good enough for HPR.
Yeah, it's all right for a voice and stuff like that.
But any sort of series, like a lot of the,
when I do any big downloads of photos.
I mean, they do.
I've got what I've got here.
It's still enough for me.
But they keep on selling the idea that,
hey, you can have more faster speeds
and you can have whatever it's like.
You really need that.
As if you're watching high definition videos,
but.
If there's a big portion of you paying games
or something on the same connection, maybe yeah.
Makes sense to upgrade it a bit more.
But otherwise, it's like you need all that really.
But what I was doing, I was downloading all these photos
doing side audits of stuff that we do out remotely.
And if you put it living in your downloads
or any folder, maybe not your downloads,
but in certain folders and windows,
it'll back it up to one drive.
So it was hammering, was downloading,
was taking a while,
and then uploading to one drive at the same time.
And now I put everything in my music folder,
which sounds silly.
But yeah, it's all backed up on a false server anyway.
So I can flip through them quickly myself.
How many music folder would be easier?
A music isn't backed up to one drive.
So it doesn't fill up my bandwidth,
trying to upload it as fast as I'm downloading it.
What's that right at?
It's just to put it in a folder that's not backed up to one drive.
If I download a file to my documents folder, for example,
it'll download the file,
so a word document,
and then it'll upload it to one drive to back it up automatically,
which is good if it's something that you want backed up.
But a lot of the stuff I'm using now,
it's I'm working off a false server anyway,
it's already backed up.
So it's just creating a backup of a backup,
which to me is stupid.
And it hammers my bandwidth when I'm downloading things,
I'm downloading all these photos.
And at the same time,
if I put them in my documents folder,
at the same time,
it's uploading it to one drive.
So now, like I say,
I was putting them all in my music folder because one drive doesn't backup to one drive.
It's a little work around.
It's a frustrating thing.
Oh, right.
See, yeah.
Also, maybe all our American friends are set for us,
sleeping now almost.
Probably.
It wouldn't blame.
But that's one of my things with all these backup.
I reckon there's the same file,
especially where I work,
and probably if your company's probably the same.
The same file is backed up in probably 15, 20, 30 different places.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
That shots maybe in.
Yeah.
Because trying to look at, you know,
photos are like, you know, one to two megs each.
And you're trying to flick through them to find the photo that you want.
It's not practical to do it more on the false server.
So you download them to your own hard drive,
which then puts them out of one drive.
And two or three of my colleagues do the same thing.
So then you've got two or three copies of these photos already.
And then you've got them backed up on one drive.
So there's six copies of them.
Plus one more server.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So two of what in your case?
I work for a company that looks after facilities management.
So we do up, like I suppose, yeah, many.
Right.
Yeah.
Facilities like, you know,
air conditioners and pumps and stuff like that.
So that you might want to build building.
Yeah.
Yeah, mountain buildings, mainly buildings,
but also some other infrastructure, but mostly buildings.
So when we go and do a work,
we'll do the, you know, the pre photos to say,
this is what it was when we got there.
Then we'll do maybe some during photos.
If it's a big job,
and then at the end, we'll do some after photos to say,
this is how we left it.
So there could be, depending on the job we do,
there could be 100 photos to show various aspects
of the building before, after and in the middle.
And then this, depending on the customer,
that can also be like a serious amount of quality photos.
Some people want to see every little detail.
So it could be easily be a few hundred photos.
So when you're trying to scan through them
to make sure they're all like,
hey, we're trying to find something in particular.
That's when people download them,
saying, you could quite easily have six copies of 100 photos.
You know, anyone on my laptop,
on one driver, on the file server,
or on my colleagues' laptops,
and on their one-drive folders.
So that's a big problem,
but I don't know what to do or do about it.
I suppose storage is cheap, so no one cares.
So what do you want?
I'm running Linux Mint 20 at the moment.
I've had it for quite a while.
No, there's been, yeah.
And I changed quite a while ago
because of the Broadcom chipset issue.
Remember reading through some blocks or something,
and I saw somebody commented
that Linux Mint's got the best driver,
and I loaded it up on a laptop that I had at the time,
and it worked.
So I thought, oh, this is good.
I've never changed.
I just stuck with it.
I don't know, Matt,
people that were developers
have known it was meant before,
or these ones, I think.
And it was together.
Oh, yeah, that's meant it's like the best.
I was like, oh, am I right?
Mm-hmm.
I don't know about the best,
but it certainly, for me,
it fixed my problem back then,
and I've always found it very easy
to install and set up.
Where's...
Yeah.
But, wait, yeah.
It's a funny base tool.
That one, actually.
There's an deviant W and base version as well.
Yeah, I used the Ubuntu one,
but having said that,
I haven't tried anything else for you.
It used to be the thing,
because of the whole codex MP3.
Yeah, yeah.
You can make a proprietary,
like MP3 files and other things,
and most histories couldn't support,
couldn't support by default, really.
Yeah.
That was another reason.
The next Mint had its way around that,
because they were based on Ireland or whatever.
And, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was another reason.
And...
But I haven't tried anything else for...
It would be ten years now, I reckon.
Bit of a ride, since I've tried anything else, so...
I'm sure...
I'll give Ubuntu...
Um...
For Dora.
And all those common distros,
probably just as good as Mint.
He's...
Just a stick with what I know, that's all.
Are you...
Are you in cinnamon?
Or Marta or what?
Ironics FCE.
Oh, I...
Oh, that's a C.
Yeah, you old school now.
Yeah, against what I'm used to.
I've tried some other ones.
Yeah.
They're not paid.
It's just different.
Yeah.
The thing with the excess years, I've never really...
I've had it.
The extra Ubuntu and whatever,
had that open news...
Done whatever with the excess.
I've had it installed in his mother's district,
but I've never really...
I've never really got in to excess CE for...
Is it any...
But on the other hand, the kind of...
I've always...
We used to gloom...
Anyway, gloom 2, and then...
Obviously, gloom 3 came and gloom 4.5 for...
For all everyone now.
And again, it's a bit like that too.
It's probably like if we're going back to gloom as well.
Or Unity, when Ubuntu had Unity saying that.
I like that, actually.
But...
Actually, some...
Some teenager from India, I believe,
is maintaining Unity now.
Because...
Yeah.
Has this like project?
Because there's actually...
There's actually a respin that's become official, I think, now as well.
Or nearly if not.
It's become a bunch of Unity respin.
It's become an official flavor.
It's kind of funny as well, isn't it?
How they came up...
Come out with their interface.
Unity, and then they end up dropping Unity.
And then eventually they have to go and make an official flavor
of Unity with updates.
Yeah.
Become an official.
Yeah.
I tried some of them.
I just...
It's found that...
They're a bit slower.
Yeah, I like Unity.
The learning curve.
People gave it flat and whatever.
And then they gave it a copyright assignment policy thing.
If you develop it, I think it can't gain the rights to code.
But...
And it was hard to get ported to the store and open so many tries.
But I liked Unity.
And there was also a test thing.
Unity 8 preview thing that, on the desktop, I got a drop.
That was a shame.
Because that could have been something.
So I had an old GNOME shell preview in 2010s.
Yeah.
I use Caden Live for videos.
And I choose...
Sorry, an App Image.
It's not the same.
App Image.
So that's how I got around that.
It works fine.
KDO likes one of the programs, but the interface reminds me of Windows.
I mean, it really does.
And actually, Microsoft copied certain features from KDO inspired
and put it into like a multi-pal desktops and Windows 10 something.
I mean, that's been in Linux for a long time.
You know, in policies about 1993 in some form.
Multi-pal Windows desktops, yeah.
But I like some of the KDO programs.
I can run those in GNOME anyway.
Yeah, I like GNOME shell, though.
The newer GNOME shell.
I mean, it's got some blame when you move it around the stuff.
But the newer versions.
GNOME free and run like 4.5 or something there.
But there's not too much blame.
But there's some if you get a bit bored with the future as well.
So you can move around and play around with that a bit.
And it's good.
But I also load up Martheit times, which was the GNOME 2 fork.
Still.
Because sometimes that's actually good.
And good for what I'm doing at the time.
Or trying to do whatever.
And yes, it looks old now.
Of course it does.
So there's XSE on most of this room.
And actually, SSE was the first full GNOME 2.
Not sure what one GNOME 1 came out.
But I think XSE is older and actually used back to 1996.
So it looks at this before.
Yeah, I can't remember.
It's just what I've got used to.
And I'm sort of when more of a computer user than a tinkerer.
It's good that you can get it into everything.
It's not my thing.
But it's a bit like with login screens.
You might think, oh, it's just a login screen.
What does it really matter?
Who cares?
Right?
A login here.
I don't get into my distro.
Or maybe I'd have a login screen because I've got all the quick boot.
And they also boot or whatever enabled.
But I've got a login screen normally.
And there's a TV.
There used to be a KDM, but I got dropped.
Or they came out with a newer one under KD.
There was GDM, old versions, GDM, cloned display manager.
Yeah.
And there was suddenly like the M from a bug.
It was on the cool.
And there's one.
I think it's like the M is doing that.
But it's going to sound a bit silly this maybe.
But I don't know.
Either way, either way, whatever.
There's one where on Ubuntu or basically it will give me a noise as I log in as I load it up.
And it's basically giving me a noise.
That's like a theme or part of it.
And I think it's the only one that does that actually.
Let me look at this for a while.
I don't know.
Maybe there's a way to change the sound even though I don't know.
But it's like again, it's like I'm used to this.
I kind of like getting that noise actually as opposed to that.
So that's partly the reason why I like that screen.
But I've also used, for example, at LXDM from LXCE before a few.
And the way that was set up with a clock and the way that you sort of generally work,
that was a nice one as well.
But you know, it's things like that.
We get that choice as well.
You don't like your login screen.
You can go and change it.
You don't like your clear enough bootlock screen.
You can go and change that if you want as well.
Yeah.
I don't like noises.
I turn on notifications of them on my phone and computer everything.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry.
I've got notifications on now.
It's like Jesus so much.
But if it's down, then there's nothing left.
Yeah, I turn them all up.
I haven't turned them off on mumble.
Because I don't use mumble very much.
No, I don't either set for this really.
But I mean, this is an old program now as well, mumble.
But hey, it still works.
Yeah.
It's a bit like trouble getting my microphone working.
When I first fired it up a lot of time, I couldn't get my microphone working.
Stuffed around in, what's it called, the audio?
The ball is old, but it worked.
Not also the other one.
I'm going to look it up here.
Oh, I've forgotten.
Yeah.
It's all over the audio.
Yeah.
I was stuffing around the pulse audio.
And then the USB microphone can up as an option.
And I don't exactly what I dig.
I don't know how you got it working.
Yeah.
Which is a bit of a worry because next time I turn it up,
I'm going to set up mumble.
It's probably going to do the same thing.
And I don't know how I fixed it.
No.
Yeah.
But that's good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pulse audio can play up when.
I don't know.
It's not the, it's not the, it has a tab you control.
Pulse audio settings or whatever.
It's not the best.
It's all a bit confusing really.
How do we configure these things?
But it, I mean, I remember when that came out when a punt who,
I went to April 2008.
Yeah.
So, oh, what is a short thing?
Well, I mean, April 2008, long term support release.
And they, and they introduced pulse audio straight into the LTS.
Which was a mistake really at the time.
Because it wasn't quite work properly just yet.
And the matter of time that's a good one is having to go kill all pulse audio.
I remember that.
And I think they learned after that as well.
Like, if you're going to make them introduce anything major,
do not put it into the LTS version first.
Put it in the standard version first.
Use that for testing.
And then get it into the LTS version.
But never ever introduce it first into an LTS version.
No.
And then I guess that's why they were system D and WLAN later on.
They made sure that it was in standard version first.
And then it came into the LTS.
The LTS is especially stable and work and supported a long time.
Yeah, which makes sense.
And people get for me with it and they get a bit of feedback.
And they got the opportunity to ditch it if they don't want to push on with it
or modify it or whatever.
Yeah.
What I was going to say as well with things getting used to things.
Now, another one is this.
Now, I don't know how many people still do this.
I know I'm one and sometimes when I feel like it.
And I know that the software is being updated sometimes.
But I will actually enable it.
And I know you don't need screen savers anymore.
So my friends keep on telling me because screens are, you know,
they really don't really need many more in that sense.
However, I will occasionally install.
I'll actually sometimes enable the screen savers.
Still the X screen saver or the Glamer screen saver.
I think there's a fork of one.
No, I think X screen saver.
I've got amusing now or whatever.
You're getting your flying toasters and you know,
and whatever.
And I actually remember when I switched to Linux when I was 16 17 or
I couldn't be online because of the issue with bulk on what we were talking about and so on.
At the beginning, it has to be hard.
I wouldn't have wide yet.
But I remember like, okay, I've got the door call one with everything.
And one of the things I quite like coming for windows as well.
And I'm talking screens savers here.
I'm also talking being young now as well when I said back then.
But I remember with the limited flying to Marack thing and flying text and maybe the
staffing and freely maize was in.
Well, one of them as well.
That was good.
But then you get to Linux and it's like, wow, look, all these screen savers.
So I was offline, but at least I could run screens savers, yeah.
Lovely, pretty screen savers.
And and leave office.
It's not leave office open office at that time.
Looks really good with the theme and gloom and the red at logo and all these little little things like that.
And then I got and I got online.
And I'm ready to talk about looks now.
Things that look nice like screens savers, but saying that I met a guy once at my loved Linux user group.
Yeah, who in like 2013 that must have been who came along somewhere else.
He was helped with some music software or something.
And we couldn't do it, but he was like totally blind as well.
So he was using a bunch of with unity as well.
I think he said unity, but it was for a totally multi can't see this.
I think there's one HPL ones as well.
And blind person again, who similar story.
And it sounded like that we're the screen reader that unity was one of the best interfaces to use for some reason.
So that's kind of interesting as well.
And then when you think about it, it would be a different world if you're blind from what we see and so on.
Linux would be a different world anyway.
It was a guy used to get on a lot.
I think he's named Jonathan Nadale or similar.
He talked about.
He was blind, I think.
I think he was on HPL, wasn't he?
Yeah.
And tilts.
And I think they gave it the nudge that thing for me.
I think I'm going to need you to share maybe last year or the year before something because I think I think I think it could have been this person.
I've been going for years.
I think that I think there was someone yet.
He was working on a distribution.
What do they call accessibility distribution?
It sounded really interesting.
Yeah, somebody in my other district, who wasn't.
I think some it's some extent and well with disabilities for some and like like blinded whatever, but.
I don't know, but yes, there was talk about.
I think the projects are a little bit lacking though, but it's not really catered for like being blinded and that.
So you have to kind of find the way around it or the screen readers could improve.
I'm not sure what the current state is of these things actually.
But I assumed that things could still do with funding and funding and improvement.
It's one of those things.
I mean, people might think governments could get involved and fund it, but you'd go out to some consultancy and it would cost a small fortune.
I don't really go for my luck.
He was going to do like music tech or something at college at UK college.
And they use Macs or the other people were using Macs, but then he said that he didn't want to use a Mac because apparently being blind.
The next unity was somehow better to use.
And it's like, OK, but then the problem was trying to get some music tech working.
And I think I don't know what happened then.
There's two people that could have maybe helped weren't there and I don't know.
And I've seen them once or twice.
When we three times pop up again on the mailing list saying something until we've moved away some miles now, but Wales.
But I don't know.
But yeah, it's a different world.
Like I watched a, I mean, I mean, a lot of program called BBC Click in the UK, which is not particularly good.
But it's like the only tech show or pretty much that we have.
And it's a shame because it's just aimed a lot of it.
It's just maintenance.
It's nonsense, really.
But they show on there aimed at a general public, you know.
So there's nothing that technical really as well.
Or actually one year they mentioned PC, you know, so I send the website thing, which I thought was interesting.
We took where she goes and ran the websites and tells you about things.
And I was like, really?
And I think about who has been shown on it once or twice.
But generally speaking, it's just mainstream.
But I remember there was an episode with somebody blind once.
I did see or clip or some or some of it.
And I figured I was talking.
I feel that comfort.
And they were showing the phone and cut a member exactly.
But it was about obviously about the differences between like if you're blind.
And how are you like use a smart phone with a touchscreen, for example.
And and and it's like, yeah.
Because these devices are not set up for blind people, you know.
But they could find the way to adapt and find the way to possibly use them any way.
And I suppose I have to.
Well, they can't use them.
Yeah, I can see how Linux would be better.
Because you've got not not not just anybody, but anybody with the skills can jump in and make some changes to the existing system to make it just a little bit better each time.
And then it was that.
Do you want to do that on a whether it's Mac or Windows?
I imagine would be a lot harder to get get the traction within those companies to get people to work on it.
Be a lot slower.
Yeah, I guess.
But yeah, I don't know.
It's different world.
If you're blind, I guess.
Yeah.
But then there's also people who have got mobility issues as well.
So using a joystick or something like that to navigate your way around will also be a thing.
Well, yeah.
Well, yeah, I suppose so.
Well, the, I mean, the latest 1146.
So it means that the official show is going to finish in like 40 minutes.
And I'm even here.
I haven't even heard Ken come on, which is a bit like really.
Maybe he's just so busy with his family this year or something.
Sometimes when you start talking about Kenny actually turns up.
As you, as you say that, but that depends.
It will just tend to 11 PM here.
I know there's supposed to be like an after show.
But I mean, the official one finishes in the in the 11 minutes.
It's almost seven in Thailand.
Well, you from what you in Thailand.
And from Ohio and the US, but I'm in Thailand right now.
Oh, it's over there.
What did you say?
What I'm saying is the official show is going to finish in like 11 minutes or so, isn't that?
What's the meaning now?
I'd be hot and humid in Thailand now.
It's hot all the time.
It's not humid right now.
I think it's humid when it rains, which I think is in May and September.
Somebody said there's only went to somebody's been to Vietnam for that.
I know or knew or whatever.
He said to me that when it rains, it's like a hot shower.
There's like North Queensland here.
I've been up there a couple of times.
When it rains up there, it's what's in monsoon or area I suppose.
It's hot water.
It's warm. It's not cold, but it's it's a quantity of it.
It's unbelievable.
The amount of rain that can come down.
A lot of rain at once.
You get, I don't know, I'll say like 50, 60 millimeters in an hour.
Easy.
There are rains a lot around here normally, but yeah.
And then they could occasionally be flooding things, but or too much rain sometimes as well.
Like wow, we've had like months where for rain in a week or two days, not two days, but.
We've had a fair bit of rain lately, some beach hours come through.
Storms bit more than usual, I think.
Yeah, well, it's global warming.
Apparently some of this as well, the changes and the weather and yeah.
I was reading that the Gulf Stream is slowed down, which is the ocean current down the east coast of Australia.
So it brings the warm water from the tropics down to keep us fairly temperate.
And apparently it's slowed down significantly in the last 10 years and they don't really know why.
It's probably due to climate change, I imagine, but.
The topic, you mean like what was like wish islands or what were the tropics?
I put around Indonesia way for us.
Yeah, that way.
Okay, yeah.
PNG.
I'll pop in again.
Up there.
Yeah, a few shots coming down some time.
Yeah, well, they do.
That's why they used to end up in Sydney Harbour.
Occasionally, you get some shots in there, even a few people.
Well, 2023 is.
I'm quite even sure what that last time there is, but.
No, it's lingering on.
It's like still there by like, well.
Things about seven minutes now.
And that is history properly.
Yeah.
And what's going to be the big thing in 2020 before you reckon?
Yeah, that's up there.
No, no, no, that was joke for a long time.
We were talking about that.
It's like Brian Lundig.
Who's that?
More of the little people.
What I mean, who's that?
Brian Lundig is.
He used to, I haven't watched it for a while, but he used to.
Well, he's a person.
Every year we do a, like a podcast or a YouTube video.
And now, podcast.
My name's Tom.
My dad.
And he would always be predicting the year if it just stopped.
The thing in 2024 is that NASA is going to find some sort of alien world.
And guess what?
They're going to keep it secret from us.
Because it's going to be like, because it's going to be, it's not going to be quite like.
Yeah.
It's not going to be quite like mmb films.
Yeah, man in black.
Where when the normal people know about stuff, they can like.
Raise your mind.
Yeah.
What does the voice?
So.
Yeah.
Apparently, um.
Brian Lundig.
We can work for that one.
Yeah.
They're leaking.
Maybe five years.
There's a bit of stuff coming out about.
They don't call them UFOs.
They've got another name for them.
Anyway, objects in the sky that they could not identify.
Is it moving through?
Coming out.
Well, one, one person was saying they look like.
A traditional flying saucer.
There's some reports of people saying things like that.
And apparently one crashed in Italy.
Oh, the fuck with fake.
In the 50s and 60s.
Yeah.
And that's an idea, no.
But I don't know.
There's a bit of infer coming out.
But if nothing else is interesting to listen to.
I can't remember the podcast.
It was on.
Whether it was.
What have been Jerry Rogan?
Jerry Rogan interviewed some fellow who was the US Air Force on Navy.
I can't remember.
Oh, it might be the one in the archives.
I don't know.
It was a podcast.
It looks like the archive.
The recent ish.
You know, and it's had interview with someone.
Maybe that's the one.
I don't know.
It was Joe Rogan.
Have a look at Joe Rogan's.
Or that.
Yeah.
So maybe not.
Sure was Joe Rogan.
He's on.
Spotify.
Yeah.
He swears a lot too.
So basically we have all.
I think all the Americans have gone to sleep.
Yeah.
They're all set for thingy that's in Thailand up to you.
But what's going to say is basically Australia, which is, yeah.
I was straight.
It's called Stradiano in sure.
Isn't that the continent, huh?
Australia.
Stradiano.
Stradiano in sure.
It wasn't it.
Or I don't know.
Ophiana.
Ophiana.
Ophiana.
I don't know.
Ophiana.
Ophiana.
Was that what was called?
Yeah.
Ophiana.
Oh, that's the region.
I think.
I think.
I think you think in your minute be Australian.
Well, I don't know.
It's.
I don't worry about that.
It's obviously.
Yeah.
Get them there.
Ophiana, I think, includes New Zealand and some northern islands and stuff.
I bet not.
Yeah.
If I get it wrong.
That's fine.
I'm from the UK and from Europe.
That's fine.
If I get it wrong.
But you're Australian.
A problem with Island?
Because I couldn't ask a girl this.
Yeah.
How can that f***** lss.
I didn't ask you guys to think we were in Austria?
No, in the EU and Finland Europe.
It's peacefully.
It's via Germany.
Yeah, yeah.
What's we are saying?
So we got Australia and.
Radio Constance called.
And the Out.
On budget that okay?
We have.
Asia with the other guy queuing is around.
There's somewhere still and we haveor up.
Left.
That's it, because it seems that all that everyone in America, whatever that was on the recipe, they must have collapsed.
But, to my fear or something, and yeah.
Oh yeah, it's the morning, the morning.
Gentlemen.
That's your engines.
Or one guy's come back.
I have some interesting information from the Apollo program.
Wait, who's this? Not mine, or is it? No.
Yes, is it...
I think that all the Americans set some metminers.
The only man in America that still is in America has made it until the end of the official podcast,
which is about to finish in three minutes without being left somewhere.
Well, there's been some information leaked that one of the moon shots had a little company
for about five orbits of the moon.
What's the date?
Well, it was a unknown object just happened to be in the neighborhood and decided to hang around for a few orbits.
And this was carefully edited out of the live feed to the general public.
You know, don't want to scare the horses.
Yeah.
But I suspect that there is a lot of stuff that the government knows about different things.
I've looked at a number of stuff on YouTube, and there are some reports from Area 51.
A guy was a weather guy who evidently was exposed to some visitors who didn't need to go through immigration.
Yeah, you know, because they were dealing evidently, it was sort of their existence was to be an open secret.
Nobody documented it.
I really have an audience on the moon as well.
And that's what they've been keeping for all of this time.
Wouldn't our government keep so many secrets?
In fact, a buddy of mine who worked for TSI and some other three-letter agencies said that if you look at the Raiders of the Lost Ark,
he said that when he was wearing a green suit for our government, he was guarding one of the secret storage facilities,
like in the end of the Raiders of the Lost Ark, where various super secret odd stuff is stuffed, never to see the light of day again.
And well, that's it. The whole world is in 2024 now.
Yeah, that's it. The whole world. By the way, 2023.
Maybe we should think about doing this on the summer solstice as well.
Why on the summer solstice?
Well, it's about six months from New Year.
Do it every six months. I mean, you know, we could work on it.
Yeah, maybe. I don't know.
If it takes us about six months to process, then besides, it would be our own version of the Ubuntu release cycle.
Well, yeah, it comes every six months.
Just the notion and it would certainly help fill the hungry Mars.
We are not in the same months of release because that's October and April, but yeah.
I'm just saying, yeah, we wouldn't want to copy them too closely.
Besides, we haven't found our millionaire sponsor yet.
If it's a summer solstice in another hemisphere, yeah, mid-summer, then.
Does that mean it's the winter solstice for Chris?
It's easier because he's in some hemisphere.
Yeah, it would be, but you've got to remember that the Christmas just...
Yeah, they can be spilling in the sea.
It's up to him before it, Christmas. Australia.
Yeah, well, going to the beach around here at Christmas is very cold.
Very cold, yeah.
Oh, by the way, we do have some folks in Boston
who go to the sea in February.
Well, there are some people that swim in the cold, or cold-ish,
they actually, and maybe you wet suit, but they do that.
We have...
They're one of the surviving bath houses, L Street in South Boston.
The fact that it's an Irish neighborhood might be something to do with it.
You know, the Irish being a little...
God bless the gills of Ireland, all their songs are set.
All their wars are marrying, all their songs are set.
Well, L Street brownies keep up a tradition of going from the L Street bath house
out into Boston Harbor when most people would be sitting at home by their fireside.
By the way, gentlemen, that is a semi-serious idea.
I mean, this is enjoyable.
Some of the soldiers, I mean, well, whatever, I mean, I'm saying that,
it's a good week to be away somewhere.
I got well out there where I met some of them.
These difficulties on here, we're telling us how host of Australia got a bit cold.
What he is, so that he's so hot and...
I guess a gamble, I attend a great selfie of some forms.
It's freezing cold.
And when it's the semi-serious stuff in the Northern Hemisphere, yeah.
Oh, I gotta tell you, I used to go out to MIT back before the turn of the century.
I had some friends who had different, you know, they had computer organizations there
and they had the original AI PDP-10.
But the deal is there was this one, a couple of guys from South America
who couldn't catch a break.
They'd come up here for the school year in the winter time, well, fall in winter.
And when we had our summer vacation, they'd head back home to South America
being below the equator.
They would go from winter up here to winter back home.
It was kind of ironic.
I suppose they were working there with me.
Well, they were going to MIT, which is some pretty power, pretty heavy-duty technical education.
It's one of the best technical educations you can get in the USA.
Also, I've heard that MIT master's programs could pass for doctorate programs
in other universities.
Hey, I suppose if they'd go in the education, they'd sort of be tall and wiser, but stuck only.
Yeah. Also, a friend of mine was a computer science and electrical engineering master's student.
And his wife was a PhD in some exoteric formal geometry.
I mean, when her advisors were on sabbatical,
that reduced the number of people who knew what she was doing significantly.
I mean, large fraction, just a few people going away, just about half the population of people
who knew what she was doing.
And the interesting thing about her is for her PhD,
you know, thank you.
She wanted some green granadas cigars, which are a pretty big cigar,
and you might think would be more suited to a, you know,
like my dad or somebody's janitor rather than a kid.
Well, yeah, but I'm just saying, you know,
just imagining a PhD with this big-ass green cigar,
it just stuck in my memory.
I guess we have to say same time next year.
I know that title's been taken, but well, if the shoe fits, dance with it.
Yeah, if something gets organized for the solstice,
and depending on what I'm doing, work wise and all that,
I should be able to pop in.
So you're all going to have a cold.
Well, I'm going to, yeah, well, since here,
it gets mid-summer, sometimes gets somewhere near 90 degrees,
certainly effective temperature, maybe a hundred.
I mean, yeah, I mean, 90 degrees C.
Oh, yes, that's a very important summer.
Well, well, this is, no, I need to do this.
No, we're in a primitive serenity universe.
That's not good.
So what is it, more like something like 40 degrees C?
Think about 35, 37, I don't know, something like that.
Well, I believe blood temperature is like 37.5.
So, yeah, 37, 40 degrees centigrade.
Anyway, gentlemen, I'm going to hang up, hang up the line,
and start looking forward to next year's show.
Are you going to get some steam out of here?
Yeah, I'm awake now, and I may be up doing some computer stuff,
but I feel bad, yeah.
I'll keep, well, I've had enough caffeine to keep me up for a while
besides, as I said, this midnight day was my old preferred working hours.
Anyway, I could talk to you until the next year.
I don't know if there's one in the middle of the year, but we'll see what's that.
Well, I may pass it on to Honky and whatnot, and he can pass it up to chain.
Then what happens is that the show gets released just before the previous show,
and then the next show gets released just before the New Year's show.
Well, Morton C and L say good night, the netminer.
Yeah, well, Morton C, just do your best to make it a good night for the next month for L,
and I'll be well thanked. Take care of yourselves.
Too much.
Too much.
I think Ken's flashing up with that old guy.
So, she's happy.
That warms my heart.
And I don't.
And, well, anyway, time.
I know my mother said that I was inoculated with a trolling needle,
so I'd better just fold my tent.
I wonder what the long-term health impact is of swimming in cold water regularly.
What if it's good for you or bad for you?
It is very good for you, specifically ice water.
The metrics that the research I have seen is that 11 minutes a week is the optimal,
is the minimum amount of time to give the optimal benefit.
And I think it.
I think.
Yeah, I guess.
Well, it's only not in there too long.
There's a group of people who do it through winter down here in Melbourne,
Placeville, Broughton Beach.
We're now, these people go in there and swim every day, every year.
Well, it gets cold enough.
That is it for ice as well.
Oh, I know.
It's for ice, but cold water.
I don't know.
I've never been down there when it's cold, but I imagine it get below 10 degrees C.
It's not not freezing, but cold.
Oh, yeah.
That's interesting.
I think it's the first news.
Bios therapy.
And it's supposed to help your body.
Your body is supposed to stop producing white fat and switch to producing brown fat.
It also has positive changes to your immune system,
including causing your body to produce more stem cells,
which in turn repair damage in your body.
It's interesting.
Definitely something I'll have a little.
I was seeing some videos of people.
I assume it's in the Sweden or somewhere up that way.
Going in a sauna or a hot house or whatever they call it and.
Yeah, and jumping into these icy cold lakes.
Yeah, it's not to me.
It's crazy, but I suppose I feel used to it.
How are you?
You're a Australian.
So right there.
Let's talk sauna.
Yeah.
That's how I'm house Swedish.
But I'm also got my mom's mother was finished.
And the sauna is from Finland originally.
And so yes, it's very much so hard to finish culture.
And in fact, where my second cousins grew up in Loughborough,
Loughborough, a lovely house, wood house, whatever they were.
Their own private sauna.
And then yes, there's a lake down the bottom shared with one
to where the neighbor is nearby.
But anyway, where you can jump in after you've done there.
And the saunas are lovely when it's cold or you get very hot in there.
And then and then yes, it's tradition to like try and jump into a lake
or something to cool down.
And so it's an experience although yes,
not much to be done with the sauna in Australia probably,
because it's hot there most of the time.
But and too hot, but or whatever.
I don't know, it's not part of your culture, is it?
But yes, the sauna is good.
And then you get really hot, you sweat and all that.
And then you cool down somewhere.
And that's basically good for the body apparently as well when it's
releasing whatever sweat from, I think, heat or I don't know quite.
Yeah, thanks for the link.
I'll just, I mean.
Well done.
Well, modern sea sent a link through for the health benefits in the chat.
But it's a regular bike, a pushbike up a mountain here, not far from here.
And it was a, I suppose a spring day and it was quite hot,
because it gets hotter as you go up when the sun's built down on you.
And there's a nice sort of rock pool that's streamed to this off to the side of the road.
So I jumped in there and it was freezing.
It was obviously melting ice coming off the top of the mountain.
And it was freezing, but I have to admit I did feel good when I got out.
Obviously it was freezing.
I was shivering when I was in there, but I felt really refreshed when I got out.
So a little bit of anecdotal information.
But generally we don't have much cold water in my day.
I mean, it's not freezing cold.
I've never measured it, to be honest, but it feels like it's probably about 10 degrees.
Also, maybe I'll start taking a thermometer with me and measure it.
Be a bit more scientific about it.
There's a sauna and saw here in Thailand that I go to about once a week.
And they have a sauna in the steam room,
whatever it is.
Chris, have you not been in the sauna?
You need to get in the sauna somewhere just for the experience.
Fan of them.
I don't know why.
It's one of those things, but I used to go to the gym quite a bit.
And they had a sauna there.
A sauna in a spa.
But I was mainly interested in going to the gym.
Not so much as a spa in the sauna.
So are you saying more dancing or more dancing?
More dancing.
More dancing.
More dancing.
More dancing.
One who is more dancing.
Yeah, you're saying about a sauna over in Thailand?
Yes.
My significant other actually moved closer.
So I would be close to it this year.
They have a steam room and a sauna.
And then hot tubs and cold pools that are men and women separated.
And the cold pool or ice bath, whatever, is about 12 to 16 degrees Celsius.
It's pretty cold.
You can see your breath when you're in there.
Your lungs just close up when you jump in or slowly go in, whichever.
But I feel great afterwards.
I feel amazing.
And the first time I went, it was the hottest day last year that I was in Thailand.
And it was 96 degrees.
In the morning, it was 96 degrees Fahrenheit, which I think is about 37 degrees Celsius.
And after I did a rotation of that, the sauna, the ice bath, and the hot tub.
I felt cold the rest of the day.
The heat didn't bother me at all.
It felt like a cool day.
Yeah, it's similar to what I experienced up on the mountain.
Yeah, it was good.
We got a river nearby here, which I don't swim in in the winter.
I'll swim in the summer.
I'll go on to swim, but I don't swim in the winter.
Some people do.
I reckon they're crazy.
But maybe they're not so crazy as we're finding out.
Yeah, I think a lot of us have dropped out then.
I have a lot of people and places that have polar bear clubs where people join together
and go jump into frozen lakes or rivers that are the ice has broken up.
And they do it.
It's like a badge of honor.
Yeah, I can see doing it as for the bragging rights, as we say.
There's something to do in achievement.
And I have done it.
I've swam in cold blue person things just to be an idiot in front of my mates.
And I'd be tough and all that sort of stuff.
A bit of peer group pressure, you know how it goes.
Now I'll jump in.
You'll be right.
Although one thing, one of the one thing happens is this, right?
Somebody goes out drinking.
Bears, alcohols, wilder drinking, right?
And then they get there to jump in that cold river or something like that.
And then they do and then they go into shock.
Yeah.
Do you all get a cramp or something?
Yeah.
Now, one thing I've managed to stay away from is mixing up drinking with doing other things like cycling or swimming,
shooting, anything, anything with an inherent risk like that.
I, you know, typically just don't do it.
If I've been drinking at all, driving and other ones, you know.
Some people try their luck, but I tend not to do that.
Well, one strong craving is definitely something that's about things.
Yeah.
And it is.
There are no doubt there's plenty of people who say plenty of people.
There's a significant minority of people who try their luck.
I think they can drive when they're half tanked.
No, I've never done that.
I've always been fairly diligent in not, you know, once I've had a few drinks or even one drink,
I can stay away from certain activities.
I've been talking on podcasts and ham radio.
It's best to stay away from it when you had a few drinks.
Maybe, yes.
It's best not to podcast when you're too drunk.
There's too much tax on alcohol over here anyway.
It's too expensive to drink now.
Oh, tax.
The alcohol tax.
Yeah.
How much is that?
I don't know in terms of dollars, but I know, I know inflation is part of it as well,
but it looks like it would be expensive.
We probably tax our alcohol as well.
That'll be good.
It's index is good.
There's too much people drinking in any way.
Fashy younger people.
And then you get in and it becomes fights and things sometimes.
You know, not just a fight.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I wonder.
I've got no.
I've done no research on this, but I just wonder whether or not people who want to get in it,
older, the state of mind, they just find something else or they go and buy something else on the street.
And it just moves the problem from one problem to another.
Was that faith being on the street?
Did they go on the street?
I get something else on the street.
Probably drugs or something.
Give them a similar effect.
Now, I don't know whether that's true or not.
It's just something that I'll wonder.
There's often unintended consequences to some of these so-called solutions to problems.
Yeah.
I could take cigarettes, for example.
There's a lot of tax on those here.
Again, I don't know how much, but a packet of cigarettes I believe is about $50.
Which is, to me, a lot of money, especially if you're smoking a packet a day.
Some people do.
That's a pack of 30.
But I know somebody who goes and buys these black mark cigarettes that are imported from God knows where.
And they're about $10 a pack.
But they smell absolutely potent.
So I reckon they're significantly more dangerous or do more harm.
But it buys them because they're cheap, which, you know, I wouldn't do.
But obviously, some people do.
Well, yeah, cigarettes is another one, isn't it?
And, yeah, health issues and also where the cigarettes may have come from and so on.
And they saw the electric cigarettes.
That was what we've got to do as well, I don't know.
Yeah, there's a problem.
I don't know.
Again, I don't know much.
That much, it better be their band.
I might be here, I think.
As of tomorrow, most of them are banned.
You ought to get a prescription from a doctor to get the nicotine tapes.
But all the ones that smell like strawberries and whatever they are, they've all been banned.
And of course, in some serious lung problems, apparently.
And the vapes.
Yeah, yeah, I've heard that as well.
And I was there some guy when he was vaping.
And that was it was like, I heard that happen.
And I felt a bit funny in my own lungs coming back on the bus.
And I thought, yeah, I don't like these vapes, vapes, things either.
And I don't really like cigarettes smokers.
Yeah, I've never been a smoker.
But I can see how people start.
I mean, when I was younger, a lot of people smoked.
And it was a huge social thing.
I go to a party or I go to the pub.
If you want to be smoking, not every month.
The majority of people would be smoking.
And it was, yeah, so.
Have you been smoked before?
No, not right now.
I have tried, but I just found it disgusting.
I thought she's, I don't know, people can do this for fun.
Have you smoked before and tried out?
Yeah, just a couple of times.
Just, you know, when friends give you a drag or something.
But I think it's horrible.
I don't know how you can do it for fun.
Have you smoked before and tried out?
Yeah, you're not, you're not hearing me.
Yeah, I said, I have a couple of times.
Yeah, you have.
If you haven't, I haven't actually smoked before.
All the drugs are, oh well.
I suppose I was lucky in a funny way.
I don't know if lucky is the right word.
But some of my friends, I went to school with a doctor here.
We've got messed up, badly on drugs.
So I stayed away from them.
So that's worked out well for me, not so much for them.
Yeah, I haven't done that stuff myself.
But a lot of people do.
Or they try out at some stage and then whatever.
I'm sure some people do get the beats.
Like, you know, like with cannabis.
Or, yeah, you call it cannabis everyday as well.
Or do you think the American way?
And if that should be deglozed or these partly deglozed or not?
Yeah, I don't know.
I could, I'd sort of on the fence about it.
I know people who smoke it and live a,
what I would say, a fairly normal life.
I can also know people who messed up their lives.
But I don't know what else they were doing.
Like, they may not have just been smoking dope.
They could have been taking other things.
I don't know.
I tend to lose, um, lose touch with people when they go down that path.
Because they just don't, you know, we used to go, you know,
by riding or whatever.
Social social things.
And they go down that path.
They sort of, their priorities change and down the line.
So tend to sort of drift apart.
So I don't know.
I can see, I can see the arguments for, you know,
moderate use is for some people is manageable and doesn't cause a huge problem.
So, so why not?
But I think some people that does cause a huge problem.
Oh, yeah.
Probably true.
The other way of looking at it is that it's plenty of it around.
Um, I was riding a bike up a hill the other day and there was a guy walking along
smoking a joint.
You know, so it's not like it's, um, it's not happening.
It's like, uh, it's relatively common.
Each to their own.
Just don't, don't annoy me.
Are you working, are you working tomorrow?
No, I go back to work on, I think it's a brand new thing.
Are you working tomorrow?
No, no.
I'll go back on around the 15th of January.
I'm on help and your holidays at the moment.
Are you working tomorrow?
You must have a, uh, receiving problems.
I could say that three times because I didn't seem to hear you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He was bombed.
So I thought, is he not hearing me?
No, I replied.
But, uh, no, no, no work tomorrow.
I'll go back on around the 15th.
15th.
Yeah, it's twice.
Yeah, I think I've had this problem where I might, it might, it might, it might be me
getting, getting a receiving problem sometimes because some of the stuff didn't seem to come
away with other ones sometimes.
I thought, like, was it me or you cutting that up or what's going on?
Yeah, it's probably your end because, um, other people who, I can't remember the other fellow's
name.
Uh, he was talking, I could hear him, okay?
But you were saying you couldn't hear him.
So, uh, you, you do have a problem at your end to something.
I thought it was cutting off sometimes, maybe.
You said no to working tomorrow, are they okay?
So you're going to be here for another 24 hours, um, just keeping the after show, okay?
I mean, I did it one year actually.
I was, me, I kept it going for a while with someone and then of course, maybe three hours
and somebody else came on and as well as came on and somebody else came back, like, I think
he was even like, what are you, what are you still going?
It's like, yeah, we were about, we were in about 10 hours, I think, by the, and then somebody
else kept it going and somebody else kept it going.
I think you're on to about 17 hours or something like that.
Yeah.
I can't remember exactly, but it was quite a long time.
And they put it up as well.
It was like 17 hours for sure.
As you know, I've been doing it.
I've got a few things to do before I get a bell.
I've got to get some tools, tools outside about replacing a door, um, with a solid door.
Um, the last one, I've been slowly replacing all of the external doors with solid
and solid doors.
It just helps with the heat.
Just, just normal doors, but they just solid.
Solid, that's all the power.
Now, solid is so LID.
So it's, you know, most doors are hollow.
You've got, um, you know, a veneer of plywood on each side.
And you've got the hollow gap in the middle.
That's right.
Getting late there.
Not so much here.
It's just sort of like, well, this can pass midday, but where you are.
Yeah, it's almost midnight.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
What are you going to do these?
Pack up these few tools.
I've got it in the back.
Yeah.
And, um, I mean, you're coming off.
Get a bit.
Yeah, I'll just be.
So, where, where, how do we contact you anyway?
If you want to have a do that.
Uh, I don't know.
I'm not really happy on them.
Are you?
Are you?
Are you?
Are you?
Yeah, like, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
You'll be on the pot or you'll be on the heat.
Shall I get on something?
No, I don't really know the podcast.
I did a new year show and that's it.
Really.
I could do a show for Ken in a way, but I haven't.
But I'm 10 years.
Anyway, I think about 10 years.
Yeah, probably as 10 years.
I listen to a lot of podcasts.
Um, because of the time difference.
From the timing.
Yeah, working out.
So if you could chat to you, though.
Um, and you'll be in the mentioned.
This will come up.
Not sure we just last after show, but.
The main stuff will come up.
Sure.
I have a podcast.
And then we listen to you talking to me.
And the others.
Yeah, I think it's pretty much over there.
Somebody's going to pop in here later, probably.
But this is it.
Really?
It's looking like a less mongoose around still.
That was cool.
Dude.
I haven't heard anybody.
No, it's been a bit lagging this year.
It really has.
You're paired to like someone said earlier compared to like last year and stuff.
There were a few more people.
Some interesting people that chat like anything as well.
But there might might be a summer slash winter solstice.
One of them.
If that's really going to happen.
The new year one.
No, that's the new year one.
Make all the time.
All the time zones.
But yeah, if you want to go off, that's fine.
Yeah.
Yeah, do you have a chat more than she's just rejoined?
You've been in an out of it.
I'm going to head off a few things to do before I get a bed.
Maybe it will get us.
I guess we're putting yeah?
Maybe next time we head to back that.
Oh, that's a tool she could have ran out the back.
Yeah, probably on next year next time as well.
There's that.
I'll listen out.
Yeah.
Alright, I'll see you all later.
And I'll catch you another podcast one day, maybe.
Hopefully next year, one or something, but yeah.
Alright, nice chatting to you.
Yeah, bye.
Alright, 7-3, so say.
Hey, I'm ready, I'm ready.
See ya.
See ya, yeah.
Good night, everyone.
Who was that?
More than 6?
That moon, moon, moon.
Who said that?
This is goat.
It's gone off.
Yeah, we'll go off.
Just checking.
Is anybody here now?
I guess not.
I'm still here.
I'm still here.
Maybe one per.
No, I guess this is wet then.
Really, isn't that?
Oh, basically.
Yes, the two of us.
Oh, no.
Ah, there is.
Ah, you are here.
I thought there might have been one person left.
Yes, how it goes, isn't it?
Not quite as many people, but as previous ones, but berries per year, these things, isn't
they?
Very much.
Very much, yeah.
So, is the aftershoe going up as well on the podcast?
I'm not sure, but I can ask Conkey.
Well, not there's been that much aftershoes so far.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Oh, Conkey.
Oh, Conkey's fine.
Yes, yeah.
Right.
What are you up to?
What are you up to?
How much?
How much?
Yeah.
In Thailand.
I'm looking for someplace to deliver food for dinner.
Yeah.
It's almost 8 p.m.
It's a quarter to 8 p.m.
The lever.
It means it comes to your place.
The food, yeah.
Yeah.
So, they have a show delivery.
Guys on motorcycles that deliver.
There's a line man, grab, and food panda.
Oh, you've got your own.
We've got that.
Why not those companies?
Obviously, we've got that kind of thing here as well.
We've got delivery.
Yeah, like delivery.
Uber Eats.
Justy.
And there's maybe some smaller ones as well, actually, somewhere.
Yeah.
I think at the peak in the U.S., we had about a dozen different ones.
I think it's down to about six.
Oh, I'm an oil.
I'm an oil with these three big ones.
They all owe me refunds, really.
Or at the moment, I've had issues here and there.
And they get city with refunding and things as well at times.
You know, they're supposed to refund for items that you never get.
Yeah, the delivery is great when it works.
Just comes to your place, yeah.
They have to go out.
It's going too much.
You're down and getting it.
But you're going to come to your place.
What's work?
The U.S.A.
Looks like I'm a Scotty.
I can't from Kentucky.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, they're there with S.
It's free.
Yeah.
So now I guess.
It's in the U.S.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kentucky and the U.S.
Are you up early or are you on late?
747.
Yeah.
Do you get some sleep and come on again or?
It's AM.
That's what I mean.
Like, is that early or late?
That's...
So you've been up all night?
Or are you up early?
Yeah.
I was up about 5 o'clock and I kind of was listening to what Scotty was talking about.
It's some interesting things to say.
Yeah.
If he was the one that says stories about us making our own.
Which one?
Which one was that?
Scotty made his own name.
He's a name that wasn't there, like, properly.
Scotty made a show about us doing moonshine together.
Does anybody over there work with the proxmox?
Or do you see our seer lit up?
I don't know you're asking something.
Couldn't hear that properly either.
I was just seeing if anybody works with proxmox.
Oh, fluxbox.
No, proxmox, the virtual server.
No.
What do you mean?
Yeah.
I was up early trying to see if I could migrate the M's to a different disc.
Also, there was a guy called Moon Valley.
Oh, that's properly.
But at least one on the go on the hand still.
A little round a bit.
But it kind of comes to an end.
Unless we keep it going somehow.
We're just dropped in the channels, whatever.
Scotty and the show.
What is good P thing?
Oh, whatever that was.
About what you're talking about?
Yeah, that's the one.
Although, I can't get on it because it's basically because it says
that it's not available outside the latest things.
I'm not going to go on a USB panel or something.
You know what I mean?
Didn't know it wasn't available outside the box.
I guess it's for something help care.
Oh, I don't know.
I'm seeing pressure.
I'm getting away.
Mike, come off this in a bit.
I don't know.
I'm tired now because I didn't speak properly.
That's it.
Right here.
Now anyway.
Hello.
Is anybody here?
I see everybody made it off the bed.
It looks like everybody's off.
It's Miss Scotty on the channel.
It's going to tell them about Raspberry to 5.
That was probably a transco.
I just wanted to say I want to thank everybody for
participating in this year's New Year's Eve show.
I want to thank Ken Fallon and the HPR community for helping out along
with Scotty, some guy on the Internet and Lovecraft,
with their help with the show notes.
Well, I'm not sure how much audio I got,
but hopefully it's a lot.
Or at least it's a lot.
Anyways, thank you.
Talk to you guys again next year.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcast,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it needs.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the Internet Archive and our Sync.net.
On this address status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
