Episode: 4204
Title: HPR4204: LibreOffice Importing External Data
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4204/hpr4204.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:21:01

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4204 for Thursday the 12th of September 2024.
Today's show is entitled, LeBrofus importing external data.
It is part of the series LeBrofus.
It is hosted by GemLog and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, it's how to use the normal menu items to make online tabular data easier to use.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello HBR, GemLog here again.
This isn't a very long tip, kind of a tech tip, but I've found it enormously useful.
And it has to do with when you come across a site of tabular data like on Wikipedia or
God forbid statistics Canada, there are just horrible UX pages where you can't
sort the columns and the column headers don't stay in the right place.
I used to try to copy paste them, but some of the pages are just too huge.
What you can do, and I didn't know it was in there until
not many months ago, really, I've been using it for years, I've been using
LeBrofus since it was open office and before that star office.
But under the menu called Sheet, there is a way to link to external data.
And you choose that, and you can just copy paste the URL for Wikipedia or statistics Canada
or any of the other things into there, and you can import them.
And usually the names don't make a heck of a lot of sense, you can't really tell which
table it is. So I just bring them all in and then I delete the ones I don't want.
I just delete those rows and try to get the row with the column headings up on the top.
And then you can go to data and set an auto filter on those
on those rows so that you can sort them. And then the next thing you need to do
is move down to the second row and then you know about eight two I suppose usually.
And freeze it under the view menu so that the column headers stay in the same places to scroll down
because, for example, on statistics Canada, the pages are just extremely long if you're trying
to read a census. And as soon as you've missed the first screen, you don't, you're just in a
sea of numbers and you can't tell what column you're in. It's extremely frustrating.
So the ability to just quickly import it into Libra off his calc is is marvelous.
Yeah, that's really the only tip. I know it's not a very long show but it's all I've got.
Sorry.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thoughts
of recording podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
things.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
