Episode: 4459
Title: HPR4459: How I got into tech
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4459/hpr4459.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:54:21

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4459 for Thursday 4 September 2025.
Today's show is entitled How I Got Into Tech.
It is part of the series How I Got Into Tech.
It is the first show by New Host Watchseach, and is about 4 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I describe how I got into technology and what stories I would like to
tell.
Hello, I'm Wojciech, I'm from Poland, I'm a nerd, I work as a software engineer.
I've found Hacker Public Radio about a year ago and wanted to record a show since, but
life is always busy.
I'm trying things out, I'm in a supermarket parking lot in my car, this is my second attempt.
So we see how it goes.
So how I got into tech.
In a way I've kind of always been there, at least since I was a child.
The story that I like to tell is that when I was about 4, my cousin launched me
Mortal Kombat on his Amiga computer and I got interested, that's my oldest tech-related
memory.
As a kid I mostly just played video games, mostly on clones of 8-bit consoles like Atari 2600
or NES, later some unspecified models of Commodore and Schneider computers.
I don't even remember what exact models they were.
I got my first PC at about 10 years old, it was an Intel 486-SX 12 megabytes of RAM,
850 megabytes hard drive running Windows 95.
Mostly playing games on the computer, but as it was running Windows, as you may be
know, with Windows con-problems, sometimes using these but not always, spoiler has been
over 25 years and this trend continues.
Around the same time my sister went to high school and got a Turbo Pascal textbook.
This is what really interested me in programming.
And that's why my interests and career in software development began.
Since that time I had a very clear idea of what I wanted to do in life.
I just knew I wanted to work with computers, primarily doing software engineering.
I went to a technical university, wrote some university of science and technology, I think
that's the English name.
Then I got interested in other computer-related things like networking and I also got into
digital and analog electronics just because I really wanted to go that to one level deeper
to learn more about how computers work electronics in general.
I also have other interests, both tech and non-tech-related, like for example science fictionly
literature and I would like to record some shows about those in the future, we shall
see.
There is one specific story I want to tell, but I think I will save it for October.
Why October?
Because this is a workplace horror story about Windows.
Well, not really a horror story, but it was really bizarre and can be described as such.
In the meantime, I don't want to promise anything, but maybe I record a show on what I am
currently doing at work, which is the topic of audit trail in software applications.
But I am chaotic and I may do something entirely different, we shall see.
I think that's all that I want to say today.
I would really appreciate if you left some feedback, it was the audio ok, it's my English
enough, did I speak too fast, English is not my first language and I've noticed over
the years that I really tend to speak too fast when using English.
And that's it, thank you for listening, hopefully we are here in the future.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by www.monsthost.com, the internet archive
and our syncs.net.
On this address status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
