Episode: 4302
Title: HPR4302: New Campaign Trail Playthrough
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4302/hpr4302.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:40:28

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4302.
For Tuesday, 28 January 2025, today's show is entitled, New Campaign Trail playthrough.
It is part of the series' computer strategy gains.
It is hosted by Lachiboy and is about 24 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, join Alexander Lachiboy as he plays New Camp
Pain Trail.
Hello, this is Lachiboy with another HPR.
Today, I'm going to be reviewing and playing New Campaign Trail.
So, for people who like history, politics and gaming, this is the game for you.
So, I'm going to play in the 1960 elections.
Let's get to it.
After eight years of Dwight Dyson, however, two youthful candidates compete to be a successor.
Kennedy is a senator with a moderate record, a telelegic face, and a high-mind retonic.
Nixon is the sitting vice president of the strong Cold War Record,
moderate economic views and potential liability problems.
Nixon begins the campaign as a slight favorite,
but every region of the country could be competitive.
Key issues are the Cold War, civil rights and health care.
So, I'm going to write both candidates just to make it even.
So, I'm going to start off with John F. Kennedy.
His home states Massachusetts.
John F. Kennedy has served as a senator since 1953.
He's come from a wealthy political family and processes are youthful, telelegic appearance.
He has been a moderate senator in the past and faces challenges of winning over liberals
who prefer other candidates.
Furthermore, almost any sense that Kennedy takes on civil rights will
and it is a key block of the party.
One strategy to finance these points and focus on the Cold War Kennedy would be the first Catholic president.
Okay, so first and then you need to select your money.
So, as your money made that really affects what you do.
So, we can have Lyndon Johnson.
Lyndon Johnson is a powerful member of the Democratic Party,
having served as the Senate majority leader for past five years.
Many southern states are threatening to both do a segregation ticket.
Johnson is the only person who would declare to save most of those states.
Texas was certainly lost to any other running mate.
At the same time, his vote for a Taft Hartley Labor Act in 1947 is still a sore spot for unions
and could down the enthusiasm for the ticket.
So, if you want to sweep the South, Lyndon Johnson be good.
Stuart Simmington was a minor contender for the nomination
but he is a respected center on foreign policy issues.
And as a good rapport with Kennedy, he has served a secretary of the Air Force
and was a more outspoken abond of McCarthyism than Kennedy was,
which makes him appealing to liberals.
His home cemetery should be very close in the fall,
but he is somewhat unpopping the deep South.
So, if you don't want to win the deep South, go Stuart Simmington.
And then, finally, with Hubert H. Humphrey,
Hubert H. Humphrey was another rival for the nomination with clut against the agriculture
and the labor wing of the party.
He is basically blacklisted by the South and wing of the party
for the standards he has taken on civil rights.
Selecting him would sacrifice the South,
but would increase the chances of winning states like Illinois, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York.
And New York has the move vote, so he would be handy.
But I think I'm going to go historically and go, Lyndon Johnson.
All right, I'm just going to do default winner take all and difficulty.
For forgiveness, I would definitely recommend default winner take all.
Yeah, just go normal difficulty.
So, let's start.
So, the aim of the game is you have to answer 25 questions about politics.
Each answer could depend on what happens.
So, be wise or what you pick.
So, what kind of tone will you accept to set your campaign in this fall?
I will, deep, they emphasize the political of this aspect as much as practical
and emphasize my own personally and leadership ability.
Of course, I want to make strong statements on the Cold War.
I will campaign as a mainstream liberal Democrat,
emphasizing key parts of our platform and pricing the case for more vigilance
in national defense.
I have always been on the more moderate wing of the party.
We need to emphasize my anti-communism and my record
as a senator to win back the eyes of our Democrat.
It is important to keep the Democratic Party moving
into the future when he's at civil rights and education
and health at the moment of return.
I think I'm going to go, it is important to keep the Democratic Party moving
into the future when he's at civil rights.
Okay, I'm going to go that one.
And then, a vice feedback gives me good luck with your bold agenda for the future.
What do you have to say about the selection of Lyndon Johnson that you're running made?
Lyndon Johnson is on loyal southern and senator from Texas who will spare no effort to
advance a Democratic agenda.
Lyndon Johnson shares my political beliefs.
I'll be a postpartner for the government in the next four years.
I think we'll go, he's a loyal solider nut.
You're worried about the J of support.
Health as LBJ begins campaigning the south.
He will cajol and strong iron that reaches politicians
into disavowing the unpledge elective movement.
And then you decide which state you have to visit.
So I think I'm going to visit the south.
I'll go visit Alabama.
Do you believe the current levels of just spending are adequate?
In the final lap, Alice's every dollar spent on defendants taken from more productive
users within our economy, I will look for ways to find common ground with the Soviet Union
so that we can cut defense spending.
I believe that we need more vigilance in the area for both military government and
missile development.
We currently have a missile gap with the Soviet Union or we can go.
We can always find areas for improvement, but we can
but we are successfully defended the United States
under Alice from the numerous colonists that took over the past eight years.
Well, since I'm democratic, I'm going to go against Eisenhower and go
with a missile gap.
This is a core argument of your campaign and a good place to
differentiate yourself and the Republicans.
Okay.
There is a recent effort in Congress to pass a program to provide
medical care to the elderly Americans, but it was narrowly defeated.
Will you make a further push for this type of program as present?
This program represents a massive financial commitment for the federal government when
the care of the elderly properly rests with the effective family.
I have heard a slightly different program offering health insurance
to the elderly without the choose to purchase.
The proposed program was mandatory and also covered only those who cover
the Social Security Act.
I would redouble efforts on this front.
Too many of our nation's elderly are unable to afford decent medical care in these
events years.
These program is a good starting point, but I would much prefer a program of
national health users for all Americans, not just the elderly.
I'm going to go with this program as a good starting point.
I think that's what I'll pick.
This will certainly, certainly,
galivize your base, but it's hard to imagine that you can get national health
insurance passed after the failures of Truman on this front.
Okay.
So, I'm going to visit the Albus in New York.
Are you satisfied with the economy and the economic policies of this country
over the past eight years?
The Eisenhower administration has unfortunately failed to take any
real action in doing the excess of the new deal.
I would like to see more conservative administration in power.
We need more spending and lower interest rates and we need to repeal
the Taff Hart React and put more money into the hand of America people.
We must do better.
Our president administration has advocated a hard money policy which calls the
recession of 1958 and left ideal industrial capacity in our country.
We are on the right track economically.
We can't deny there's a recession in 1958,
but the recovery has been strong and 1960 will see a very high rate of growth
in this country.
I think I'm going to do we must do better.
Is the United States adequately prepared to defend against the Soviet
threat today?
I have satisfied with our progress over the past few years.
We have prevented further expansion while avoiding any major wars.
So that's one answer.
Cuba has been lost the Soviet Union providing a potential base for
communist aggression on the very doorstep of our nation.
I am very unsatisfied with the current situation.
Or we can pick we can never be fully satisfied,
but we have certainly held our own into the Cold War over the past eight years
compared to what we were doing, the Cullian War.
I'm going to do never we can never be fully satisfied.
So I think I'll visit California next.
Do you believe the United States is adequately prepared
to defend against the Soviet threat over the next 10 years?
I am satisfied as can be.
With sound defense policies and strong economic growth we should continue
to maintain our advantage over the Soviet Union.
That's one answer we could or we could pick.
We have a missile gap and overly tight monitoring policy that is constraining our growth.
I am very concerned that these shortfalls will allow the
origin to gain an advantage if they are not at the rest.
Or we could pick I don't know what to perfectly be found.
These are not going well for now, but we have many challenges to meet in places like Cuba,
Lebanon, Latin America, India, China and elsewhere.
I think we want to pick we have a missile gap because I think that's one of the
democrats said, okay, no, our vice-fuel art either.
Richard Nixon has made expedience the centerpiece of his campaign.
What do you have to save on this point?
Richard Nixon and I entered the Congress in the same year, 1947,
and I have both served in the House.
I was going for some time.
That could be one answer.
Another answer could be, I question this premises to be frank,
it is still not clear to me what role Nixon has had in the Eisenhower administration
or what policies of his has been implanted.
I will bring new dynamic leadership to this country as president.
I don't see how the sign of argument has proved me to any disadvantage.
I think I want to put Richard and I into Congress in the same year and know our vice-fuel art either.
That's because of Texas.
Anti-culticism has been huge.
As soon as there's foreign scamping with hundreds of plants and leaves has been
disturbed across the south and midwest. Do you have any comment?
We can't be out there responding to every little tube that leaf looked at.
Some clank puts out that's way to see how this issue develops.
Let's gather some of these leaflets and show them to the media,
and make your new papers and I think they may demonstrate that some people will go to
describe my candidacy, okay? Another answer is I will attack the idea that any good
protestant would vote against my candidacy because I have to be Catholic.
I think I'll attack the idea.
There's no vice for that.
Should the New York City to pollute the Soviet Union for the Conversity,
surround in the downed U-2 spy plane and the surrounding X-Vinhardt?
A final apology seems a bit extinct but we could certainly express our regrets
and perhaps save the Paris summer from collapse.
We lost a lot of ground diplomacy after this event and much of that could have been avoided
had we issued a final apology.
Or absolutely not, we cannot show weakness in the face of the Soviet
and the Paris summer collapse because the instantionettes of Nikita Khrushchev
I think we will absolutely not.
And there's no vice for that either.
Most of us are next and I think I'll be just Michigan next.
Did Dwight Dyson and I would do the right thing when he sent
federal troops to Little Rock to ensure the integration of high school they are?
We should have found a better way to resolve the issue
rather than intrude into the sovereignty of an American state.
That's one answer.
The second answer could be he absolutely did and I would like to see further
action to deser- desercate our schools and enforce our civil rights.
That's another answer.
Another answer I believe Eisenhower did what he had to do in this case to make sure
that the citizens of our Supreme Court are enforced.
I think I'll go with that.
I believe Eisenhower allowed to do what he had to do in this case.
There's been a large number of citizens recently where Black students are sitting at
Dwight only lunch counter and department stores to advocate for deser-
creation.
Do you support this movement?
So you could say these activists are trespassing on the property of lawful businesses.
I think there are better methods for pushing for change in the south.
Or this movement has my full support as I do the other civil rights measures of our day.
I would put for civil rights as a peasants as another answer.
Or we could pick I support civil rights but I'm a little concerned about the discard for the law
that some of these activists are shown.
I think candy was very strong civil rights.
I think I'll do this movement has my full support.
This will help you that I turn out in the knowing state and heart a little in the south.
Well, I kind of guess that's the south and more concerned.
I think I'll visit New York again.
Anticathoses and continues to be an issue.
Major newspapers are published a statement by
150 Protestant clergy, including Norman Vincent Pio, opposing any Catholic as president.
Do you have any comment?
Let's take this opportunity to make a major speech on this topic.
I will address this issue exclusively in a televised speech and put it to rest for good.
That's one answer.
But we could also put let's put a couple of statements into my next campaign
to the rest of this issue and reassure the public that I take no orders from the Pope.
That's one answer.
And another answer is I am Catholic and I am proud of it.
I will not respond to big go to the tax or in doubt.
I trust these are attacks.
Well, I'll meet by driving higher Catholic turnout.
I think I'll go out Catholic and I'm proud of it.
It won't put up on your chances of winning the election.
But there are some concerns about how passive you've been addressing on this issue.
Okay.
There's been a poster for a series of television debates between you and Kennedy.
Is there something you are interested in?
I would love to go with the idea I guess Nixon will tell us debate or let's be caught with
their dear Nixon as a skilled debater.
And the last thing we need right now is a campaign set back on national television.
I think I'm going to go let's have a go with Nixon.
Let's tell about Nixon.
You are clearly the first winner in the debate.
And I choose in the sudden enthusiasm of your clouds.
Um, we're still fully read here.
So, but hopefully that will change.
Has the United adequately defended against the communist that in China
will just both further action there if necessary.
This is a situation that we need to watch carefully.
I'm open to a variety of measures if necessary.
I believe we need to defend South Vietnam at all costs.
Whatever commitment of our fourth and tails.
I would support these massive air strikes or tactical nuclear efforts to defend our
South Vietnam.
We need to make sure we don't over extend ourselves into new regions where
when the situation does not warrant it.
I think I'm going to pick I believe we need to defend South Vietnam at all costs.
This is the kind of aggressive stance that they mag if you want to hear.
So, that's pretty good at you.
What is your position on the power of labor unions in the United States?
We need to do anything we can to reduce the power of labor unions including
a natural right to work law.
That's one answer.
Another answer.
I support the unions and I oppose the excess of leaders such as
Jimmy Hoffa unions and
cleansed of the corrupt elements should play essential in the American economy.
That's another answer.
Third answer.
Labor unions have been needlessly undermined by the Taft Hartley Act and
by self-serving investigations when both parties
I can do anything I can as president to support our nation's laborers.
And then finally, we should be vigilant against labor unions excess.
And the Taft Hartley Act was a good start.
I believe we should keep that law in place.
I think I support the unions.
And the advisor comes back saying this is exactly what your party wants to hear.
So, that's pretty good.
I'm just going to check my electoral votes.
It is pretty close.
Nixon got 294 and I've got 229.
So, we're getting there.
Do you believe that the islands of
Kweber and Massachusetts should fall within the United States defense perimeter in Asia?
I do believe we should defend these islands.
We are committed to the defense of Taiwan.
And that commandment must include all the Taiwan to be acceptable.
It wouldn't be responsible of me to comment on this for it.
As presidents, I will consult with our military news to determine what's appropriate.
We need to dispatch an armed garrison to these islands to make sure there is no mistaking
their commitment and a fight against communism.
I'm not sure it is practical or desirable from a military standpoint to defend these two islands.
There are much closer to the Chinese mainland that they are to Formosa.
I believe we should defend these islands because the islands are going to pick.
This is a good answer for the situation.
Okay.
What is your opinion on the current level of funding of education in the United States?
Would you increase the federal education, funding, even if it is meant,
hair taxes are a larger budget deficit?
Education is a key front in our battle with communism.
An angle is adequate to pay.
I respect for our nation's teachers.
I would support a digital federal spending on this.
Or that's one answer.
Another answer is we need to minify the federal funding of education,
even block ads.
It could easily open the door to federal control of our schools of another answer,
or another answer is I'm not satisfied with how well teachers are paid in this country.
I, and I'd encourage local judis stinctions to address this issue further.
We need to strike out good battles with regard.
I think I'll go, I'm not satisfied how well teachers are paid in this country.
Let's check the votes again.
Oh, we are winning.
We are winning 256, 267.
I don't know how many we need to win, but we are in the lead.
I think I'll be in New York.
Would you support the passage of our federal civil rights billis present
to address the worst excesses of segregation in the south?
This is something that is more appropriately addressed by individual states,
though I would do anything that can enforce the decisions of our Supreme Court.
That's one answer.
No, answer.
I'm supportive of our civil rights bill,
and we'll work out with Congress to get one written and passed.
That's another answer.
Another answer is we need to do anything we can to move our nation forward on this issue,
including our civil rights bill and measures to protect voting rights, okay?
And the final answer is I would not support our measure like this.
This would be unnecessary and unconstitutional interference into the right of our states.
I think we're going to do, we need to do anything to move our nation
forward, and there's nowhere nice for that.
Do you believe that Cuba has been lost the communist as of this time?
If so, do you think it is partly the vault of the United States?
Okay, we have answers.
So, what we've unfortunately seen is in Cuba is the consequence of
in suffocates support for anti-communist governments and movements.
We need to be much more aggressive in our actions against the castle government.
That's one answer.
Another answer is we need to defend our base at Guantamo
and do anything else that is necessary if Cuba could use this hostility.
However, it is too hard to make a conclusive determination at this point.
We've seen some alliance things out of Cuba, but it isn't necessarily a lost cause.
Cuba has not declared itself a communist state and we should be making overtures to prevent that.
I think we need to defend our base, I think that's all I'll do.
And there's no advice for that.
So, do you think a minimum wage of $1.25 an hour with some exceptions for small business,
such a measure was recently defeated in Congress?
So, one answer is I support this measure and believe it would be greatly beneficial
to millions of American workers, that's one answer.
Another answer is our current, we know we're just suffocating to my opinion.
The minimum wage is a necessary expedient, but we should be
increasing as so much that we cause unemployment.
That's another answer.
And the final answer is I believe an minimum wage is at very least a bad economic idea
and possibly unsecution.
I cannot support this increase.
I think I'm going to do, I support this measure.
How serious are this kind of time do you believe the eternal communist threat is?
It is unfortunate that we've become less vigilant on the internal communist threat in recent years.
Expination, infallation and our government is as serious,
as external Soviet action.
The last thing we need is a return to excess and which hands of the early 1950s.
We need to keep ourselves focused on the external communist threat.
Or we could pick which we should always be concerned about eternal supervision,
but the external, so with that should be the family focus at this point.
I think we should always be concerned about internal supervision,
but the external, so with that is our prime focus.
Okay, and I think I will visit next, Tennessee.
Recently, Martin Luther King Jr. was arrested at a sit-in in Atlanta.
And now it's been sentenced to four months of prison for failing to get a Georgia driver's license
after moving to that state. Do you have any comment or action you would like to take?
The answers are let's make a public comment criticizing this arrest and expressing our hope
that this situation doesn't escalate any further.
And the answers I will give, I stay and encourage the state of Georgia to protect the safety of Mr. King,
while criticizing him for participating in these inflammatory and analegal protests.
Or in other finances, let's make a call to Mrs. King off to offer her condolences
and let's demand the release of Mr. King. I think we'll do that one.
This will definitely help you with the black and liberal vote in North, okay?
Lady Bird Johnson, LBJ's wife, has been spurted on by a gathering of far-right protesters
in a Dallas hotel lobby. What are your thoughts? I have no requirement to make,
but I'm sure that the voters in Texas will certainly be in sense at the invisibility of this episode.
Why should we have to pick that one since there's no other answer?
One ugly is that may not swing too many moves to your side, but any little bit helps
late in a campaign. That's for the Wisconsin. Where will you spend your final day for the election?
I think I'm going to focus on the Midwest. You're having enthusiastic stories,
wherever you go. Unfortunately, Eisenhower has also hit the sale for the final few days.
It's definitely helping Nixon. Good luck tonight, okay? So now we find out do we win or do we lose
the election? So currently we are winning. I've got 299, let's go 146.
Come on, come on. So we got no candidate as one I'm made a majority in the electoral college.
So the Democrats have an advantage in the House of Representatives. So you're a polling
good shape. However, a lot depends on how you deal with Harry Bird. It is possible that some
kind of deal will need to be stuck with Bird or Nixon to get a clean majority in the House.
So we did not win any majority, no kind of one majority. I actually lost Texas. I thought
I would have won that. So I think if I would have flipped Texas, I would have won the election.
Oh well, that's annoying. But I've won the popular move, at least. So overall review of the game.
So if you are interested in this kind of stuff, definitely go for it.
But if you're not interested, maybe give it a try. If you don't like it, maybe you will like.
And that's my opinion. Thank you for joining me today. And hopefully you will continue listening
to HBR in the future. Good day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
At Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like
yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
