Episode: 4515
Title: HPR4515: Privacy? I don't have anything to hide...
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4515/hpr4515.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:16:35

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4515 for Friday the 21st of November 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Privacy?
I don't have anything to hide.
It is part of a series privacy and security.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 implements some tips from a YouTube author.
Hello, this is your host, Archer 72, for Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, what do you have to hide?
This topic was brought to my attention when I came across this video from the hated one.
This YouTube host is extremely privacy focused and has interesting opinions not only on
US privacy and security topics, but also internationally.
This particular video was regarding locking down the settings on Firefox.
The claim, besides increasing security, is to lower bandwidth and memory usage and
double rendering speeds.
While a lot of these steps, the author took seemed excessive, they might help you.
I used a few of these settings as a takeaway to this video, as well as one extension
that I find very useful.
The author is correct in saying that a browsing habits track a lot about your personal life,
so here are a few steps I did follow.
First I selected strict blocking under content blocking.
Next I did not set my history settings to use custom settings for history and always
use private browsing mode, though this may be useful for some people.
Under Address Bar I left everything unchecked besides search engines, so that when I'm
in the search bar, I can choose which engine I want to search with.
You won't get any more search suggestions in the URL bar, but that is part of privacy
that the author was trying to get across.
Next check the box and you block origin settings to enable advanced user settings to enable
more granular control.
After that you will want to change the default behavior of you block origin to block media
elements, block remote fonts, disabled JavaScript by checking the boxes for these items.
I've used these settings for a couple of months now and found that it was a good way to
block scripts in addition to blocking ads.
There are a lot of advanced settings that I haven't explored and if you listener find
use from this and find settings that work for you, feel free to record a show of your
own or if you would like just make a comment after this show.
This has been Art or 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onesthost.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
Onestodwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
