Episode: 4498
Title: HPR4498: Living the Tux Life Episode 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4498/hpr4498.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:05:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4498 for Wednesday 29 October 2025.
Today's show is entitled Living the Tux Life Episode 1.
It is hosted by Al and is about 5 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summer is.
A mini-podcast series on running Linux is daily driver.
Hi and welcome to Living the Tux Life Episode 1 by Al.
This is a mini-series of me trying to run Linux as my daily driver.
This is inspired by a podcast called Dual Boot Darius where two hardcore windows gamers have had enough of windows and they want to use it to see if they want to use it on their machines.
So by the end of the series they will remove windows and keep using the nix or they remove the nix and keep using the nix.
This kind of got me thinking that I should really use nix a lot more.
This is why I want to document my journey of trying to run Linux as my daily driver.
Mainly I am a Windows guy.
I work with Azure all day.
I've always used windows.
It's my bread and butter.
Pays to bills.
But it's okay to read it in a day.
But I'm getting fed up with it outside of work where it's with things like being really bloated.
You get forced off of 365 down your throat.
You always want to reboot with updates.
The installed time takes so much time to install.
You have to now log when you install it.
You have to log in with a microphone for cats.
You can't do local app.
You can't log in with local users.
I don't know, maybe one way, but they're just so forced.
You need to be not having logged in with local users but having logged in with a microphone for cats.
And I don't really have no reason for using windows outside of work.
I used to, I'm a scout leader.
We used to have to fill a format for risk assessments.
But you had to have a full version of Word Neck Cell.
And you couldn't use the online version because you didn't like the filling out the form.
Now that's online.
You don't have to...
I don't need to have a coffee offered anymore.
I use Linux all the time on my laptop.
I've got a laptop with one which we're called podcast on.
But I need to force myself to kind of use it more and more.
And also, I've never really liked supporting other people with Linux.
Because other people are running it running it's myself.
There's something going wrong.
It's my problem.
It's Linux.
I need to fix it.
Normally I'll just get people with running windows on their laptops but like for my wife.
She's got a T460 with 16-gram i5.
A big window comedy because I'm on the back of it.
Her last row.
She loved it.
But that was only one of these 10s.
And that won't support Windows 11 because it haven't got a TPM module.
As is people know, Windows 10 is no longer receiving updates.
So what am I going to do for her?
So for the moment, I've given her a Windows 11 laptop running with 11.
Or she does need now is running, has a couple of websites need to do for her job.
So there's nothing there what is tiring what you need.
So I've given her a Windows 11 laptop that I get a T460 back.
And then I'm going to store some kind of Linux on there and then show her how to use it.
And see what kind of like the wife has set the testing on it.
I mean, she was used to Windows 10.
I'll give her a little bit of a time and get around to Windows 11.
But now because I've got everything to do through a browser.
I've given her the two browsers she needs, one for work, one for personal.
So I can't see you about giving her her old T460 back that she should have a problem running her Linux.
I think I'll have to be brave and be ready to support Linux.
I know I'm a brainy guy, so I should be able to fix it.
So why don't I think I need to look at what I find with Linux is laptops.
Is that I like to have with like a modern laptop where you can shut the list down.
And if machine will go to sleep and then you can come to back a couple of days later, open a lid and it either wake up.
And you haven't really lost lots of power.
I've been playing with a couple of my test laptops which are all i5,
Gen 8, all of them have the same hibernation issue where they don't even go to sleep properly.
Or they don't go to deep sleep.
So I want to try it on the, I've got a 11th gen i7.
I want to try laptops with that.
This is my homework this week is to try and see if I can get the get them work out of the better.
How power consumption really works and how I can get some deep sleep working on Linux so that when you,
so that it doesn't, the battery doesn't drain when you put lid down.
So that's all for episode one.
I think I might want to ask that is there anyone else out there who would like to take on the challenge with me.
Maybe a co-host so we can bounce ideas off.
So if you are interested drop me a line and come back tomorrow for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On this advice status today's show is released on our Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
