Episode: 4038
Title: HPR4038: Network Attach Storage Options I Use Everyday
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4038/hpr4038.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:56:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4000 and 38 for Wednesday the 24th of January 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Network Attached Storage Options I Use Every Day.
It is part of the series Networking.
It is hosted by Beto and is about 39 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, a quick overview of the NAS systems technology I use today and what
I have used in the past.
Alright, here we go.
This is Beto.
I'm here coming at you with another HVR podcast and today I'm going to talk about Network
Attached Storage Systems and Technologies that I use over the years and what I'm currently
using today.
First off, I just want to say, you know, what is a Network Attached Storage?
You commonly will hear this as NAS.
There's other combinations of this terminology attached storage, where direct attached
storage, network attached storage, and I think there's another one, but can't recall
it right now.
Anyway, today I'm focusing mainly on NAS and I might only focus on that because over the
last couple of years I've been exploring different NAS technologies and I've been adopting
them into my production space or, quote unquote, home lab production space.
One of the things that I would say is that in order to compare these NASes, you're going
to have to understand what your needs are, right?
I'm a home lab enthusiast, I have server cabinet, I've got equipment in there, I've got
tons of stuff that I'm running and I'm just doing a lot of different things and I feel
comfortable with that.
A lot of people are dialing down their home lab into smaller units and that's understandable,
but there's years of years and years of data that I'm hoarding or backing up in terms
of photos and family videos.
That basically it's not very easy to just have this sitting in a whole bunch of different
hard drives.
Today I'm going to compare the different NASes that I use and basically talk about some
of the old ones that I've used in the past or some of the old solutions that I used
before network attached storage became such a streamlined type of technology and also
just kind of conclude where I think network attached storage is going and what the right
things that I feel are to do in your own home lab environment.
But let's just go over what I've got today, right?
Today I've got Synology NAS, I've got two versions, I've got a 220 plus and I have a, I believe
it's a 914 plus, I'll get back to you on that.
But one is a 4 bay, the other is a 2 bay, both of them are able to have upgradable RAM modules,
they both use Intel CPUs and the whole thing behind that is for the ability to use QuickSync.
So QuickSync allows for media encoding and this is a huge, huge, huge benefit that you
get out of using Intel Synology NASes.
So a great resource for anybody who has this Synology or is looking at buying a Synology
and wants to basically maximize the features and the capabilities of it, there's a site
that I, the site that I go to where I can get all the containers that I can run on the
NAS, all the different Synology configurations, setting up a Let's Encrypt SSL or just making
a full-fledged home lab out of a Synology, Marius hosting, M-A-R-I-U-S hosting.com.
So Marius hosting.com, this guy's site is phenomenal, he hosted, he hosted site off
of a Synology NAS, which I find phenomenal, and his walkthroughs are really helpful.
One of the things that, you know, most people don't know is that a lot of his walkthroughs,
the Docker, especially the Docker containers that he has configured on there, you can repurpose
those deployments in your own Docker environment, so.
But if you're Synology user and you're looking to maximize the, you know, the bang for
your buck on the Synology, this guy's website is one of the best.
So let me go back to Y Synology and why I have this.
One of the biggest things that I'm using for my Synology NAS is a Google Drive backup system.
So I have Google Drive, I have, you know, my own Google Drive files, but I'm backing
them, I'm backing all of that up toward on my Synology NAS.
And there's a very seamless tool built into the Synology package center that allows you
to just one click, a couple clicks, go through, set up the off token with Google and allow
for the application to allow for this Synology to read your Google Drive.
And then I have a Cron job where I have a Cron job or a schedule service that basically
every hour, a couple hours, it just syncs my, my Google Drive to my Synology.
This is a huge benefit, right?
This is a phenomenal, it's like just a really good, really good thing.
Because if you ever lose access to your Google Drive or you just, you know, you want to
just get some files locally because there are videos, you know, tutorials, whatever, whatever
you have because, you know, you can access those locally and don't have to worry about going
over Google Drive.
Mainly because you're going to have problems loading, you know, large videos and things
of that nature off of Google Drive.
You'll be at the mercy of, you know, getting that over the internet and having that cash
onto your local machine and go from there when it's on the land, it's just a lot faster.
Okay, another benefit for the Synology is that if you're into backing up your Google
photos, you aren't going to find that it's a fairly difficult and let me take a step
back.
If you're into backing up any photos from your phone, your iPad, your iPhone, your Android
phone, your Windows computer, anything of that nature, you're going to find it fairly
difficult and Synology has a couple of options in there so you can, you know, you can basically
do what you want to do in terms of hosting an image system so that you can use your Synology
and basically back up your photos to the Synology from your iPhone, from your iPad, your
Android phone, your Samsung phone, whatever it is, your Windows computer, Linux computer,
your Steam Deck, it doesn't matter.
You'll be able to basically attach this and attach this app or use a some alternative to
make that happen.
But anyway, my point is that it's a good target for, you know, just dumping photos and videos
in there because you at least want to get that three to one strategy going using basically
a network attached storage.
But the second thing that I find super helpful with Synology is that, and this goes back
to Marius Hosting, Marius Hosting.com, is that you can run Docker containers off of
this thing.
So early on, I was running Docker containers by going to Docker Hub and, you know, pull
a container deployment and just run that and then, you know, do my thing from there.
But you can actually go a layer deeper and run Portainer on this thing and then run all
your Docker configs off of that and basically back up your Portainer and you're good to
go.
So my point is you have this very powerful one box that can act as your entire home lab.
And as long as you have the ability to basically have a secondary backup system or you can
just plug in hard drives to this device, to this Synology NAS.
You basically have a home lab device that you can conduct frequent backups to an offsite
over the network or over a USB device.
And you basically accomplished, you know, what most home labors are doing with, you know,
all this crazy equipment that they've got in a, you know, Netshelter rack, APC Netshelter
rack.
Anyway, Synology is a huge, huge, you know, easy push button environment and allows you
to either one, go all in on the Synology ecosystem or two, host your own containers for your
own applications and your own self-hosted applications.
So I think Synology is one of the best balances out there for beginners, mid-tier and even
advanced users.
So definitely take a look at any Synology box that has the ability to run quick sync or
do quick syncing coding or they have, you know, high amounts of core counts like the new
AMD ones that are coming along the way.
I'll personally stick with the Intel ones just because, you know, it's going to be, they're
going to be a little cheaper because you're going to be able to get them used and, or
renewed at a cheaper price.
And some of them are still good, you know, some of them you could still add NVMe drives
to them.
You can add Tengik, Nix to them and, you know, you get really good performance out of them.
So anyway, that Synology, sorry, you know, if it sounds like a fanboy, I just, I've had
these devices for probably more than five years now, especially the, the, the, the, the
four bay one, which is, it's a 900 series, but I think it's one of their early 900 series,
like 904 or something like that.
But anyway, great devices, they're still getting updates, right?
I'm in the latest update for both of them and, you know, wonderful, wonderful company
in terms of, you know, what they're doing here.
So in terms of keeping that box open to allow you to run containers.
So fantastic.
Anyway, all right, let's go to my next one.
Next thing that I've been tinkering with, and this one's, I'm tinkering, I am legitimately
tinkering with.
It's a Raspberry Pi with, it's a, it's a, it's a two bay Raspberry Pi system from Argon.
And basically it's a vertical NAS box, but you need a Raspberry Pi for it.
So Argon recently came out in the last year, I believe, with a four bay, two and a half
inch drive or two bay, three and a half inch drive network attached storage enclosure.
So you need the Raspberry Pi and then it has a USB, it has a, it has a daughter board that
connects over USB 3.0 ports on the Raspberry Pi and it allows you to basically attach
the two, three and a half inch drives or four, two and a half inch drives.
And I think you can do two, three and a half inches and two, two and a half inch drives
if you want it to.
But anyway, this is a nice little box.
If you have, you know, if you want to tinker and you want to just kind of get a feel for,
if you want to get a cheaper device basically compared to a Synology, this is a good alternative.
I think for a total, you know, with the Raspberry Pi in the box, you're probably spending about
200 bucks versus, you know, the 220 plus that I have for the, for the Synology, which is
maybe about 300 bucks, you know, if you get it used, you might be able to get it to 250
or something cheaper.
But anyway, this is a Raspberry Pi based environment.
So you're on an ARM architecture.
So you're not going to get the greatest of performance compared to the Synology, but what
you will get is you'll get full, you know, unlock of, you know, Linux goodness, right?
So that's what, that's the benefit of this, right?
But it's not going to be on a 686 architecture or anything of that nature.
So just, you know, it's not an Intel architecture or AMD architecture, you're not going to get
a 64 bit on full support on all 64 bit applications.
So there's going to be some nuances there because it's ARM, but at least you'll be able
to do commit to your Linux tinkerness or Linux interest by using it.
But anyway, one of the biggest recommendations here is Open Media Vault.
So Open Media Vault will allow you to basically create a Synology like front end environment
where you're going to be able to host Samba, host iSCSI targets, host FTP servers, be
allow you to deploy some containers, it'll allow you to raid, raid some drives and things
of that nature.
And basically, you're going to end up with a box that very simple, very straightforward.
And it's run on ARM, it's run on a Raspberry Pi one downside.
The one downside to this is that remember what I said, it's on a daughterboard, a daughter
board that runs off of USB connectivity.
So you're not getting PCIe bus throughput, you're not getting anything of that nature,
you're getting USB throughput.
And Open Media Vault also has a problem similar to my next options, which is basically,
you're not going to see the drives because these are not SATA drives, right?
This is not, these are not SATA drives.
So you'll have to basically do your drive formatting in the command line to then expose
that to Open Media Vault, which will then you'll be able to see the file systems and be
able to see a save to it.
One of the cool parts is it's a Raspberry Pi and you can run ZFS.
So you can configure ZFS raid on your drives, yes, you're going to have to do this over
the command line, but it's easy enough, it's straightforward, you get your two drives
added to the pool, your pool is going to be available and then from there you'll load
your file system and then Open Media Vault will see that file system and then allow you
for it to save and do basically home lab or media, media functions on the NAS.
So this is a combination solution, right?
This is a argon enclosure, but the bones of this to make it a NAS, a worthwhile NAS is
the operating system you're using, which will have to be devian and Open Media Vault,
which is the, it's like a layer or a wrapper around your operating system so that this
becomes a headless network attached storage and allows you to do network attached doors
like functions, Samba, FTP, ISCSI targets, host containers, run, you know, applications
and things of that nature, okay.
So Synology and then the second one was a pairing of Open Media Vault and an argon enclosure,
you can still do Open Media Vault on other devices, but you know, this is just a supply
of this application here with the argon enclosure.
Okay, so next one that I have, this one, I'm going to basically say that TrueNAS scale
is one of the best solutions out there for the medium to expert tier of, you know, Linux,
a home lab person, right.
So you, you want to be on TrueNAS scale, right.
If Synology is like, if you're looking at Synology is like this sucks, you know, two, two,
two bays, four bays for 500 bucks, I got, I got an old PC here that can, you know, it's
got eight bays in it, I can dump eight hard drives in there for, you know, next to nothing,
I just need something to host or to create that NAS environment.
Open Media Vault, you're going to think, oh, this is just a little gimmicky.
It's not advanced enough.
It doesn't give me the fungibility that I need.
You could go Proxmox and you can throw ZFS on there and you can do all those other things.
And that's cool too.
But remember, we're talking about network attached storage.
We're not really talking about virtualization or anything, you know, too, you know, deep
into that layer.
But TrueNAS scale is the compromise and that's my opinion.
It's the compromise because with TrueNAS scale, you've got a Linux environment, right?
Because TrueNAS scale is Linux and you've, uh, it's a, it's a Linux environment.
You've got ZFS, you've got applications.
You can run on Kubernetes bare right there on, on TrueNAS scale.
You've got the ability to run virtualization or, you know, to run VMs and you have all
the NAS functionality built into it.
You got ice guzzly, you got FTP, you got a Samba, you got NFS, you got, uh, you got everything.
Just like the same thing, the same things that come with Synology and OMV and those combinations,
you got it everything with scale and the nice part with scale.
Just like I said, you could go Proxmox and achieve similar, similar things.
But when you run TrueNAS scale bare metal, uh, you now basically unlocked all the hardware
and exposed it all to TrueNAS scale, which makes, which ensures that your ZFS performance
or your ZFS, uh, yeah, your ZFS performance is going to be optimal, right?
So you're basically, basically going to have all your scusy controllers or your SATA controllers
or everything exposed to TrueNAS scale and air and ZFS is going to run very healthy in this environment.
It's not going to have to deal with weird, you know, virtualization drivers and things of that nature.
So this is a really good, um, uh, I think middle ground for anybody out there
who's expert, you know, medium to expert tier, home lab or, you know, network attached storage,
implement needs, right? So this is, this is that mid to expert tier.
I say that because again, Synology, a lot of stuff is push button, man.
This is really good stuff. You want to get, you want to get SSL certificates loaded on there,
you want to do, they got, and they got a way for you to do that, um, all, all down for the whole
thing, right? Like you want to, you want to fully run Synology as a home lab, they've got everything
they're built into the box. It's a wonderful, wonderful product, uh, open media vault with an
argon enclosure or your, or, you know, your own PC or whatever that nature, um, this is a good
wrapper, but it's, it's just a little, you know, a little bit rough around the edges, but it's good
enough. It doesn't get you all the functionality. You still got to tinker a little or pull back the
layers a little more and work a little harder, but it gets you there, right? It gets you there.
You get your plex on there, you get your jelly fin on there, and you'll be able to do, you know,
a lot of things. Trueness. Now that gets you a lot, a lot, a lot of what Synology has, a lot,
a lot of the technical openness that, you know, using OMB or Debian is going to, is going to give you
and it's, it's basically going to then open you to other options that you didn't think you needed
or think you wanted. So virtualization, like I said, Kubernetes, um, applications, true
true-nass apps, or I forget, I believe it's like true-nass applications or, or true,
true charts. There you go, true charts, um, allows you to basically run, you know, containers,
Docker containers, or run actual Kubernetes, um, uh, run Kubernetes, uh, deployments, uh, in
true-nass scale. So, like I said, it's, it's that compromise that I say that it's the best one
for the mid to expert tier. Um, I can't say any, I can't say any more about that, right?
Uh, hardware support is all there for, you know, for Linux, uh, hardware. So you're going to get
all the hardware support that you see on Linux. Uh, you got ZFS and it's just a whole lot more,
whole lot more. Okay, true-nass core. So I've actually, I actually went from true-nass core to
true-nass scale. Uh, so one of the main things that I would say about true-nass core, remember,
this is a Unix based environment. So freeBSD is under the, is, uh, is, uh, is the basis of true-nass core.
So if you are a Unix, heavy Unix, uh, user, if you're a heavy, heavy freeBSD user,
you know, if you're coming from that, you know, um, if you're coming from that open sense
and that PF sense world and you're coming from that BSD world, this true-nass core is your,
is, is what you want to go with. And, and I say that only because, you know, if you're already,
if you're already diving deep into the depths of BSD and you're running jails and you're running
all the other stuff that you got to, you, that, that's, that's unique inside of the BSD realm.
Go true-nass core because that's your, that's you. That's all you, that's, that's where you're at.
To me, this is, again, this is medium, but I would say for the medium folks, the mid-tier folks,
just stay away from this, just go scale. Um, but if, if you're a mid-tier Linux user, right, um,
just go, just go scale, but if you're expert and you know what you're doing and you want to have
some level of, of diversity in your home lab environment, meaning you're already running
scale and you want to run, you know, something different because you want, you know, diversity
and code base and separate failure domains based on application code. Okay, go scale, do, do scale
and core, right? That way you're not hit by some zero-day in Linux in both of your, you know,
your, your server, your server environments. That's the only thing I can say about core because
I wouldn't want to run a pure core environment, right? I guess so much functionality at a scale
that I prefer to run 100% scale, you know, in all my, in all my systems, right? I get, I get
IO drivers, I get, like, I get a Linux KVM functionality that's, you know, that's, that gets
fully supported, but I got one buff for you. So one thing that I noticed with core is that
I believe if I, if memory serves me right, I believe that I was not able to get
it and someone that definitely, that email me, contact me. But if I run, I don't believe I was
able to run open sense on core. Now, I know this is not a NAS related topic, but if you got,
if you got feedback from me, let me know email me in and I'll, I'll bet though I haven't found
me.com and I'll really be interested to hear from you, but I think I had problems trying to run
open sense on their core. And the mind you open sense is free BSD, core is free BSD, and
that to me, as I think that to me is what kind of, you know, rub me the wrong way. Now running
open sense on their scale is not a great situation either because when I was running core,
I was running core and I was running proxmox for the purposes of virtualization. But because
scale came out, I was able to consolidate my proxmox and trueness environment into a single box.
And that's why I ended up sticking with trueness scale. But running open BSD or open sense on,
as a virtual machine, under scale, not the greatest, not the greatest situation because open
sense or free BSD, underlinedly, doesn't have great functionality with the VRIO driver. So basically,
I don't get the full 10 gig performance that I get from, you know, my Nick, you know, within
the virtual machine that's running in scale, which is a free BSD virtual machine, which is open
sense. So I end up have, I end up losing performance because of that. I didn't have that issue when
I was running ESXi at some point. So that's just a little bit of an observation that I've made
over the years. But trueness core, if you're expert tier and you're free BSD savvy and you're running
free BSD as a desktop or on your laptop, listen, then that's you all day, please, please go trueness
core and that's you all day. You want application diversity and you want to be able to, you know,
you've got some critical stuff that you want running and you want to, you want to make sure it's
not going to go down, go core, right? Like put the investment into running core because that's what
you want to be running on, especially for your, especially for the ZFS for support and for the
fact that it's free BSD underneath. Okay. All right. So next one up is very controversial because
actually I'm going to say I'm going to use that one for last because then I'll put the controversy
for last. All right. Individual drives. Okay. Yes. This is not the controversial one. This is just
the regular one. Individual drives. So individual drives are basically just a really bad idea. So
just don't do it, right? Just don't do, don't do individual drives. You're going to regret it. You
are absolutely 100% going to regret it. Regret it, I mean. So if you have individual drives,
start getting on a network attached storage now. If you have a direct attached storage,
I recommend plugging that thing into a box like a Raspberry Pi or a tiny PC and load up one of these
operating systems that allows you to do Samba, FTP, Sharing, whatever. Mainly Samba or SIFS
or NFS sharing because you want to get that thing on the network, right? So those drives,
you want to get them on the network somehow. So if it's individual, individual drives plug them
into a box, plug them into a PC, something got laying around and get those things on the network
and start consolidating your data and migrating them for three, two, one backup strategy. So
not the, again, this is not the controversial one, but this is the one that I believe most people
should try your best to start network attached storing your data so that you can access it easily,
you can back them up easily and you can basically get, you've managed, maximize the benefits of
a network attached storage to your everyday life and you know, start home-living if you haven't
done so already. Okay, here's the controversial one and I know this controversial because this
one is going to basically call some people to go overboard and probably stop listening, but yes,
I'm going to say it, Windows, right? Windows server or Windows 10, Windows 11 with Windows storage
spaces. This combination here is equivalent to me pitching the Raspberry Pi with the Argon
enclosure and the Open Media, with running Debian, running Open Media Involve as a wrapper or
Razbian with the Open Media Involve wrapper, right? Windows, Windows Home Network Sharing plus
a, you know, Docker running on Windows or Hyper-V or VMware or VirtualBox, whatever, right? This
is going to build that same kind of environment as well. In addition to that, if you have individual
drives and they're free of space, you can basically build a similar to Synology, this kind of funky
RAID 1 or this kind of funky RAID 5 NAS or direct attached storage environment using Windows storage
spaces. So Windows plus Windows storage spaces plus Windows Home Network or Home Network services,
that's going to give you file access to movies and videos and pictures. It gives you a target where
you can back things up to, but it's a little manual in that sense. You're not going to be able to
back up from all devices because again, you're using Windows, so now you've got to start running
containers to host certain types of applications to serve that functionality. But yeah, you know,
this is going to be the most controversial one and I know a lot of people are going to cringe and
probably already stop listening, but Windows plus Windows storage spaces or Windows plus Windows
server plus, you know, some sort of, you know, RAID solution. So anyway, okay. So, so why do I have
so many, right? I'm using all of this. I have Synology. I've got freaking Open MediaVol on Linux.
I got a Linux Raspbian box running Open MediaVol. I got Trunascale or I got
ZFS on the last one, right? Linux, ZFS, Open MediaVol. I got Trunascale. I was using TrunasCore,
so we can say that I phased out of that. And I've got, I do have individual drives, you know,
sitting, you know, that, you know, USB drives and hard drives that I'm put to the, like,
they just pile up, right? And, and yes, I do have a Windows storage space box that I use from time
to time that has a lot of old stuff that, you know, if I need NTFS file system access, you know,
that's where I'm gaining the access from. Synology, I believe has NTFS access or capabilities,
but I think that's a plug-in. You have to purchase to enable that. But anyway, you know,
I have a lot of these because I back things up from different systems. I got Windows, I got
Linux, I got Mac, I got steam, I got a steam deck, I got, you know, gaming systems, so I got
cameras, so all these things are necessary. But my backup system is pretty straightforward,
though, right? My Synologies are my front-ends, right? I use my Synology as my front-ends,
where I load everything into. I use my Trunascale boxes. I use them as my back-ends that replicate
from one another to one another. So I've got my primary, and then I've got my backups,
and then I have, you know, drives that I basically, you know, copy, you know, important things to,
and those are in cold storage, you know, right? So those are offsite, somewhere safe, and somewhere
where I don't have to worry so much. So, you know, I enjoy just spreading the load, right? I enjoy
spreading the load on different systems, because when one system breaks down, I can go to the next one,
and I can say, okay, you know, I'm good to go. I'm not impacted by the same zero day. I'm not
impacted by the same hardware issues. I'm not impacted by the same code base. It's just something
completely different, and I'm not have, I don't have to worry so much about it. Some old notable
entries right here, so some things to worth mentioning, sorry, some things worth mentioning.
Drobo. So, Drobo, I had a Drobo for many years. This was a good target as a network attached
storage for, you know, just dumping data in it. The only downside to the Drobo, and these are still
usable for many people's needs, but the only problem with the Drobo was that it's back,
it's backplane was too slow, right? You can, you know, with five drives, a recovery of five drives
could take days and days and days. Now, that could still be the case on my four base
analogy. If I have, if I have 20 terabyte drives on there, that could still be the case there.
But the Drobo, it was noticeably slow. It was very slow, and I would say that I've done
recovery exercises on the Synology. It was a lot more seamless on the Synology than it was on
the Drobo. The Drobo, you literally just put, when the drive failed, you took it out, you put,
you replace it with another one, and you cross your fingers hoping that that thing will recover.
So I think Synology is the interface a little more intuitive, and it was just a little better.
FreeNAS, right? This is where TrueNAS came from. So, you know, so I went FreeNAS, then I went
TrueNAS core, and then I went on TrueNAS scale. So the cool part about all that was these were
ZFS drives, and I was literally able to just, you know, uninstall FreeNAS, install TrueNAS scale,
and, you know, repopulate the ZFS pool, or read the ZFS pool, and done, right? Like, I didn't
have to worry so much. That's why I said about TrueNAS scale, TrueNAS core.
Since the underlying hardware is, the underlying file system is ZFS, you're basically not having
to worry. It's just about having a different code base and having it under a different operating
system. So, yeah, FreeNAS, very, you know, thank goodness it's come around and thank goodness
it's evolved into TrueNAS scale. OwnCloud. So, OwnCloud is one of these kind of like Open Media Vault
situations. So, that was definitely a worthwhile exam I mentioned. And Samba dedicated Samba server,
I mean, Samba is still around, like it's the Samba 3.0 or something like that now, but everybody
is, that's what's your, that's what, that's how you're able to share files from Linux to a Windows
computer is through Samba, right? Through network, you know, when you're doing the network,
home discovery on Windows, it's through Samba. But anyway, and it's hosted on Linux,
it's coming in through Samba. Raid enclosures, right? Like, you know, like these Raid enclosures
where you could populate like eight drives on there, and it'll plug over USB 3.0 connection.
A lot of them now are doing, you know, USB 3.1, 3.2, and I always look at that and I say, wow, you know,
you know, for anybody who's reliably trying to, you know, have, for anybody who's trying to
reliably use those, I would be very cautioned because you're limited to the backplane and then
you're limited to the fact that whatever, whatever is the machine that's hosting that to conduct the
Raid, unless you're doing ZFS, which is also a difficult thing to do over USB, as a USB interface,
but if you're just trying to do Raid or hardware software Raid, like, you know, on Linux,
MD Raid, for example, if you lose your Linux box, meaning if you lose the data on the Linux box,
you lost your freaking Raid, and that sucks, right? You can't rebuild it or, you know, you're
going to have problems. So Raid enclosures, you know, I just steer away from them, you know, stick
to, stick to ways that you can either move the drives from one box to another, like ZFS with
between Trunascal and Trunascore, or, you know, have your 3.2.1 strategy in place. Pogo plug, right?
Pogo plug, if you don't know what this was, I'm having a link in the show notes, but this thing
was basically, like, there early, I would say, it's like a, a malgamation of, you know, a Raspberry Pi,
dumbed down to its dumbest form with the attempt to become a Synology Box, right? Like, it just had
no power, and it just, it just didn't work. It worked for a moment, but it didn't have the power
to last. Delink 232, right? This is the OG of OG NASA's. When this thing came out, this thing was,
like, everybody's pipe dream, because you could, it's similar to the WRT routers, where you could
load a firmware up, and then you basically had unlocked other features and loaded up other
applications. That's what the Delink 232 allowed you to do. You can basically have this two-bay
network attached to Origin Closure, load up a firmware, and you can, you can basically unlock,
you know, Linux applications on it, and do, you know, similar things to what the Synology is
fully capable of doing today. What a wonderful device. I still have my Delink 232. I'm not using
it, of course. That thing is turned off, along with the DROBO and, you know, old rated,
rating closures. But, yeah, I think it's good to end this on the Delink 232. Rest in peace, buddy.
All right, folks. I hope you enjoyed this. I talk fast. Sorry, you know, I'm just gonna,
just gonna say sorry, but it's a good 38 minutes, and I'm gonna end this on the 39-minute mark,
and I hope you all are having a good new year. Please consider, you know, hosting and, you know,
creating a podcast and setting it to HBR, and, you know, just share what you know. It doesn't
matter what it is past, present, future. See you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sync.net. On this
otherwise stated, today's show is released on our Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
