Episode: 4015
Title: HPR4015: Value of life, part 0.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4015/hpr4015.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:38:37

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,015 for Friday the 22nd of December 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Value of Life Part Zero.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet, and is about 18 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, where your secret hat.
Scotie talks about putting a dollar value on a human life.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
I'm going to start off by saying that this topic may not be suitable for all listeners.
If you are under the age of 18, please request permission from your legal guardian to continue
with this episode.
Ladies and gentlemen, today's topic is life.
And how much is a life worth?
Now we can start by considering our own lives without saying it aloud.
If you had to put a value on your life, and you could use any value, you could say zero,
you could say priceless, and kind of feeling more people are going to go for the priceless
thing, right?
Now, what are you to stop and think about something?
Imagine there was an industry built for this purpose, meaning they put a value on your
life.
But sort of things, do you think they consider what sort of attributes do you think they consider
when appraising a human being?
Now, some think about it.
This is obviously done for money.
Somebody wants a payday.
Think about that.
There's a company out there that's willing to grant a payday, but they must first appraise
a human and say this human is worth X amount of dollars.
And we have our own proprietary way of discovering this.
I mean, think about it.
Wouldn't it be insane if these companies could do this appraise you and generate a life
worth of you without you even knowing?
Like imagine when you're young, you're in school, you're playing sports, and then you
sustain a sports injury.
The data collected from your smartwatch and your phone and everything else is collected
gathered and stored.
So these companies have basically a template or rough estimate of a healthy, young individual.
Now rather you're male or female, that could either increase your value or lower your value.
A young female, depending on other factors I won't go into here, may be quite valuable.
And depending on her region, well, her value could fluctuate wildly.
I'll leave you to think about which regions that may, the greatest changes may occur.
Changes in value.
Same thing with a young male, depending on rather not, the nation was, you know, in conflict,
a young military age male may be sought after, highly valued.
It isn't until they receive an injury during the conflict, suddenly the value drops significantly.
Same thing with a young female, the young female, highly valuable.
And again, depending on the region, if she explored reproductive activities before marriage,
value drops significantly, well, what if you don't play sports at all?
Are you as valuable?
I mean, you're still young, you're still fit, but you just don't play sports.
Or maybe you play a different sport.
Is the tennis player more valuable than the football player?
And I'm talking American football.
Because think about it, football, American football is a contact sport.
People get hurt, meaning every single play in the game decreases your value.
Now, you could make more money, which means you will then increase your value externally.
Your body is taking the hits.
So as far as the companies are concerned, your damage goods, especially if you get one
to many concussions, but you made a decent amount of money while doing it.
So you still have some value.
That isn't until you misshandle your money, then you completely worthless.
And with these sports, I mean, these are kind of like the men sports like football.
But the same thing is also true for women and a woman sport in order for them to continue
to be competitive in the sport, they may have to take medications so that they can
continue to enjoy the intimate relationships that they may engage in without procreation.
These medications, they all have side effects and because they're not necessary, so to speak,
not for everyone, taking them alone made lower your value.
And if you're not taking them, you may still have your valued lower because I mean,
you could end up pregnant.
You could accidentally procreate.
Oh no, pregnancy is a disease in the eyes of the people who will praise you.
So even though you, you're not playing a contact sport, you're still very competitive
and now you're pregnant, so now you cannot be competitive.
So now your value decreases because you're not earning as much because you can't play
while you're pregnant.
Or maybe you could, you just don't want to because it's irresponsible.
And then there are decisions around pregnancy, right there.
Do you continue with the pregnancy?
Which could lower your value further or do you terminate and try to retain some of that value?
And it all depends on who's paying as well because I mean, again, depending on the region,
if the population is a bit lower and this out of the world,
a young fertile female, her value goes way up.
And this could happen through a number of things, right?
It could be after a conflict, population drops because of the conflict or whatever.
Well, you got to raise the numbers again, right?
It's necessary for a society to function.
You need more people, more bodies.
Can you imagine that?
We need more people.
Let's buy, let's buy a hundred thousand more women.
We need a hundred thousand more young fertile women.
We want to see all of their papers that they're fertile.
And no, we don't care if they've explored.
I'm trying to keep this as clean as possible, but you know,
I've already given the warning,
well, the company could, the nation or whoever could say,
look, just, just make sure that we get young fertile women.
And we'll pay more for the ones that look like this,
but we'll also accept others that look like that.
Now, think about it.
That's a lot of money being passed around for human beings.
And I'm pretty sure most of you are already aware of what I'm alluding to.
You know, we already have industries doing this.
But we're hitting toward a future
where this hypothetical conversation I'm having with you
is going to become more and more real.
Can you imagine being told, we'll increase your value
if you put this camera on your house like a ring doorbell, right?
We'll give you an extra $5,000 worth of value
if you put this camera on your door on your house.
Because, you know, they're not going to tell you why,
but that camera is going to provide a bunch of feedback, right?
So, like, if your neighbor across the street is smoking cigarettes,
but they lied during the application and said that they stop smoking,
without that camera is now going to report that,
oh, no, they're still smoking.
Their value is just going to plummet.
And you will have helped accomplish that by putting the camera.
All right, get it together, Scotty.
But yeah, think about it.
We have a ton of proprietary technology.
That we're introducing to the human body that we're wearing.
All of the software on this proprietary technology,
on these devices, I'll say,
all of its software is incredibly intrusive.
I mean, stop and think about it.
It is not unusual.
People don't even think twice
when their flashlight app requests permission
to have access to all of the user data, right?
The flashlight app needs to be able to read your messages
and your notifications and just everything else,
your emails, whatever.
So now when you get your little health watch on
and you're collecting all that data,
where your flashlight app also needs to collect that data too.
You know, what's funny is I was listening to a podcast.
We're just taking a quick look side toward real quickly here.
I was listening to a podcast the other day.
I think it was two and a half ad bins.
And then we're talking about an incident in the past
where a PC got infected.
And one of the things that stood out was the message.
It was a Windows PC.
The message notepad.exe needs access to the network.
Like, wait a minute.
Since when does the notepad need access to the network, right?
You know, clearly something's wrong here,
except on mobile.
Oh, that's perfectly right.
Everything needs access.
So think about it.
And you know how industries are.
They'll adopt anything.
So imagine when a few companies start saying,
Hey, we would like to hire you, but what's your value?
You know, we are looking to hire people to have a value of 700,000 in above.
Because that's our way of making sure you're not going to be calling out sick
on payday Friday.
And you know, you're actually going to come to work, right?
We want people who are going to show up to work,
do the job,
going to have the fewest amount of sick days
and be as productive as possible.
So we only hire people to have a value of 700,000 in above.
Well, think about that.
Imagine if you found yourself like those weirdos over on HPR.
You know the kind.
Instead of wearing the the wonderful proprietary Apple watch,
now you went out and and either built your own or you bought like the pine time
where you can hack it yourself and control the data actually on the data
using free software to govern your lives.
So your data is being collected and managed,
but it's not being stripped away from you immediately.
Like the moment it's collected.
So therefore the companies have a hard time trying to get this data off of you.
They have to lower your score.
You could be incredibly healthy.
But guess what?
Because you chose free software
and you're not allowing them to first get the data from you
and then charge you money to have access to it after they've taken it from you.
Because you opted out of that.
I mean, you're a risk.
You're high risk.
We can't trust you in a workplace, right?
Some weirdo out here.
With a pine time instead of an Apple watch, good heavens.
Oh, you have you have an Android phone?
But it doesn't have stock Android on it.
You mean you you've flashed it with some other operating.
Oh my god.
And for those of you out there with a pine phone,
that's akin to not having a phone at all.
So I kid I kid.
But think about that.
Every decision you make to try and keep your data private
and secure to manage it yourself,
hurts your value in this society and your force to participate.
And somebody says I will not hire you.
Because we don't know what your value is based on these numbers.
Guess what?
That impacts you.
So unless you're just going to employ yourself,
you know, becoming entrepreneur and get out there and start just doing business
and good good luck with that.
Depending on the economy that you're in, you know it.
But I'm getting a little sidetracked.
Let me get back on point here.
Your value.
So long as you're doing what they tell you to do,
it rises or it stabilizes.
Now the moment you start doing things,
they specifically have not instructed you to do
or good heavens, things they've told you should not do.
Now, none of a sudden,
I mean, you got no value at all.
You're practically a criminal.
I mean, we should just arrest you, right?
You can't get a job around here anyway.
Nobody will hire someone with such low value.
We might as well just throw you in prison, right?
What if you're one of those pre-existing conditions, people?
And I know, I know we've heard about that with women, right?
Being born a woman is considered to have a pre-existing condition.
Aside from that, you know, if you have autoimmune diseases and things
that just nature, things that you just cannot control,
it's just a part of who you are.
And remember, we're classifying more and more things as diseases.
Imagine when the drug companies get involved, right?
They shake hands with the appraisal companies.
I'll just call them that.
They actually have a name in real life,
but in this hypothetical world that I've crafted,
they're just the human appraisal company.
So you'll have the pharmaceutical company shake hands with them, right?
Big dope shakes hands with big appraises.
So they work out a deal.
We can really take advantage of this situation, right?
These fat cats.
This is what they're saying to themselves.
You tell them their score is going to drop
because they got a pre-existing condition.
And then we tell them we can raise their score
if they take our medication, but a boom, but a bang.
So now, in order for you to raise your value,
high enough in my throat is a little rough right now.
Sorry about that.
In order for you to raise your value,
high enough for you to get a decent paying job.
Now you're just, you know, instead of eating lunch,
you're just eating a handful of pills every day, right?
I just had an absurd thought, right?
For Christmas, you know, people normally put here in the U.S.
anyways, some people normally put like a turkey in the oven
for Thanksgiving and Christmas or whatever.
Imagine putting a massive pill in the oven.
Does heat up our tablet?
But I got this 20 pound aspirin on sale today, honey.
Every house is going to have a big Salt Lake by the door.
And the Salt Lake is going to be issued to,
issued to you by the big dope companies, right?
Before you walk outside, you just take a big lick across the block.
And that's your daily dope.
All right, this episode is getting a much longer than I thought it'd be.
I just wanted to rattle off some hypothetical 10 for your hat,
nonsense to you and give you something to think about.
But I'm going to, I'm going to provide just a little bit more to scare you with.
Now what happens if you're a man,
but you believe you were born in a wrong body,
you should have been born a female.
What do you think happens to your appraisal?
I mean, that sounds like a massive defect,
because if you register as a female,
well, they need women, but you're one of the women that cannot get pregnant
and they need women that can get pregnant.
Oh, massive conflict.
Or what if, what if you're one of the women that has not
undergone an operation yet?
You know what I'm talking about there?
So you're still very much male as far as anatomy is concerned.
And in order for them to get the highest dollar from you,
you're going to have to undergo the operation, right?
So the operation may cost you about 100,000,
but it's actually costing you way more than that,
because without the operation,
your value is just like way down.
So you have to spend about 100,
well, I don't know how much these operations cost.
I'm just throwing a number out there for anybody who has had one.
Just keep that in mind.
I don't know.
But you know, you got to spend 100,000.
So that's income just going out to get the operation.
Then you have to recover from the operation
for your value to then go up.
But then it doesn't go up as high,
because then they'll say,
Hey, you undergone a major surgery.
You're damaged goods.
No, we can't we can't allow your health to be
equivocal to someone who was already born, a woman, right?
Yes, now that you've had the operation,
you are now by the guidelines, a woman,
but but you're a woman with an operation.
These are women who did not have to have an operation to be a woman.
So they're worth more.
And the same thing with the man,
with if you were a woman,
and you feel like you were supposed to be a man,
where they need you to perform certain functions.
And you cannot simply because you,
you just are not capable of functioning on the same level
as someone who was born male.
You would need to take a ton of drugs to increase your,
your body's ability to perform at these higher levels.
But all of those drugs lower your value, right?
Like a lot of them are experimental.
They all have all these negative side effects.
It's a ton of crap,
but it's the life we're heading towards.
You know, it's the, it's the crap we're willing to accept.
And we'll accept it because we get to use the app, right?
It starts out with just the data, right?
A few, a few weirdos over on HBR trying to warn you.
It's more than just the data.
Cut it out. It's more than the data you have to pay attention.
Ultimately, for it's all over said and done,
you owe them your life just to participate in society
because you're so eager to just click accept, accept, accept, accept, right?
Yes, yes, have access to everything.
I don't care. Just let me use the app.
All righty.
So I feel like this show has had a pretty strong topic introduced.
And I think that should bring a few comments out.
If you have anything interesting to say,
maybe do a show as a response or leave a comment.
I'm some guy on the internet.
And I'm out here.
Bye, status.
Today's show is released on their creative comments,
attribution 4.0 international license.
