Episode: 4357
Title: HPR4357: Short introduction by murph.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4357/hpr4357.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:37:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4357 for Tuesday the 15th of April 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Short Introduction by Murph.
It is the first show by new host Murph, and is about two minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, simply a very brief introduction by Murph.
Hello HPR.
I'm Murph.
I've been an HPR listener for a long time back into the early talk with the techie days.
I'm going to try to keep this brief.
I started a computer in the early 80s with a VIC-20.
After a few of the Commodore 8 bits, I settled in the Amiga line, which I daily drove up into
this century, and still have a few.
In college in the 90s, I had a dilemma.
I wanted to do C-programming homework from home, but the expensive Amiga compiler that I had
picked up wasn't compatible with the sun workstations at school.
Another student introduced me to Linux, and I promptly ordered a set of slackware CDs
and figured out how to install it.
I was looking for the compilers to complete my studies, but I stayed for the freedom and
for the communities like this one.
I've used countless distros over the years, and used a few different ones for different
needs.
I'm still a Linux user and system administrator.
I've given a few talks on things like a new screen, mastodon, and T-mux at conventions
like Pengwakan, scale, hope, and some other regional conferences.
I was inspired by Lyle and Fesh, Saraz, HPR, Birds of a Feather Talk at Ohio Linux Vest,
and thought that would make a good presentation and ask them if I could base a talkoff of
it which they encouraged.
Part of that is how to submit a show which resulted in me finally, after all this time, submitting
one of my own, as opposed to the occasional show I've crassly barged my way into.
If you want to reach me, the best ways would be via email at Murph at Weirdness.com or
on the Fediverse at Murph at Hackers.town.
Thank you for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it leads.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and
our things.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
