Episode: 4176
Title: HPR4176: HPR Community News for July 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4176/hpr4176.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:52:08

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4176 from Monday 5th August 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for July 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is the 280th show of HPR Volunteers and is about 49 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in July 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Thalam and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
This is Community News for July 2024.
Joining me as ever is Hiya State Boris.
How are you today, Dave?
I'm okay, thank you, yeah pretty good.
Hopefully there's no noises off because my back door is open because it's warm and there's
kids playing outside and whatever, so yeah, you'll know, if you hear the dog barking
it's not me doing impressions, it's a real dog next to a fully artist.
Anyway, for those of you who don't know, HPR Community Podcast where we release shows
every weekday, Monday through Friday, an any topic that is of interest to hackers and shows
are submitted by people like you good self and therefore at the start of every month,
we the janitors put down our mobs and discuss the shows that have been on to ensure that
everybody gets some positive feedback and it goes over to Dave to introduce the two new
hosts for the last month.
Yes, indeed, we have two new hosts and they are Troller Coaster, which is a great name,
and the Loughy Boy which also be wonderful name.
Very good name, great to see they have joined the network to very good shows and we will
go through them now or do we, are we going to do the any other business first or
no, well, we'll go through the episodes and if people want to, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So the first show that was released on the third of the month was the Community News
and apparently we can say anything controversial, which is excellent.
Okay, and the first show was you random pirate episodes and I think this refers to operators
doing some random stuff.
Well, what do you think of this one Dave?
It's just fun because I think there's a certain amount of confusion about
was operator joining the random people or is it because you random is a Linux thing, isn't it?
It's about to random number generator or something, is it?
Anyway, yeah, it was fun.
He was mending stuff, which is a great audio thing and a neighbor called over from over the fence
and he's the special guest.
So yeah, good, good fun.
Very funny show.
Yes, it is.
Studying, studying as she goes, oh, the ponds, Dave, the ponds.
Yeah, or yourself of the strex doing a show for adults who don't know.
Yes, and we had some comments.
We did.
And shall I start this one?
Please.
We had a comment from Trey who mentioned some discussion about making it, doing woodwork and
and finding good finishings in this country.
And he said the wood finishing said what he watched the video on YouTube
and amazing, very hard finish.
Bit pricey.
It may be perfect for your tabletop.
Give the link.
And Henrik,
and Rin says teleprinter.
When you talked about the old computer and usage for amateur radio, I remembered,
I read a dexing magazine about building and own teleprinter with the short rave radio
or whatever wavelength they operated on plus computer.
Getting the news from international bureaus directly to me.
I never tried myself, but I remember it as a cool project.
Very good.
The strex is in reply to the wood finishing point.
Hi, Trey.
Thank you so much for the great tip.
This is something I never knew existed, and we'll definitely keep it in mind.
The product looks incredible.
Unfortunately, the same company said for my rather cheap and battered table.
It's interesting that the man in the video talks about the reformulation of products.
As we recently noticed that our bars of soap now melt away, leaving a mess everywhere.
And Mr. X also replies to teleprinter Hi, Rinrik.
Thanks for the nice comments.
Yep, the project does sound cool.
It also sounds a bit complex.
I've seen a few mechanical teleprinteres being sold at the art junk sale.
I think the price was five UK pounds.
From memory, I think they're still there at the end of the night.
And very large adult, anyone would be able to lift us into their car.
How things have changed?
That's how the fund is now.
Yeah, yeah.
I've certainly known people with old teleprinters messing around at there.
Nightmarish things.
They're sure really skilled engineers.
D&T is an ex-comment for about Studio C.
I've enjoyed these shows so much.
Today, I listened to half of it in the car.
Studio C for Corolla on the way to work.
The other half on the way back.
I finished it sitting on the porch while opening some mail.
Thank you for putting it together and keep it up.
And you've been with the opportunity to tell you you're old.
Go on then.
Ah, hey!
No.
Studio C.
Thanks for the comment, TNT.
You are, you read your own comment, Corolla.
Okay, this is me replying to D&T.
Thanks for your comment, TNT.
It's good to know that you also have a Studio C.
There have been changes here, Studio Ys,
but I'll probably leave the details until our next meeting.
I'm glad to know you're enjoying our meetings.
We're thinking of getting here for another in September.
I do like these shows.
They're enormous fun to do.
It's something so very nice about meeting and people and talking to them.
Every single time I just heard those visions of all the people walking past
your car with the two, 52 guys and so too.
Prattling guys talking into a microphone.
Yeah, yeah.
Who do these people think they are?
Exactly.
So the following day, I read out the above page,
which answers a lot of questions.
This is to lay the Founder Foundation for a
another show later on in the month.
And this, if we're doing changes on HP or it's good to know,
it's good that everybody knows what the now situation is before we move to the next situation.
So that's what that was about.
A bit boring, as maybe.
It was actually interesting reading it, because when we migrated the websites from AWS,
from CPI or AWS, in order to get there,
in order to make life easier on ourselves and we'll have thousands of files all over the place,
we put everything into one about file.
And as a result, we link into that with anchors.
And as a result, some of the stuff gets repeated.
So it's on my list to consolidate that as part of the website redesign,
so that we're not repeating ourselves 15,000 times.
Yep, good.
I get behind to get the wrong impression then,
as I mentioned on our shows.
So the following day, we had GNU sleep tips by Dante Ray,
gives us an overview of the sleep band and some of its uses.
This is, of course, the command line king.
Some of these are new.
Some of these I did not knew.
Yeah, I know I'm always surprised by these sorts of things,
because I learned a lot of these things in older Unix has been sleeping Unix forever, I think.
But I don't know that the GNU enhancements, in many cases,
I didn't know you could.
I thought it was only seconds that it took,
but it might have bumped into the fact you can put minutes and hours and stuff in there.
But yeah, there's an obvious enhancement to make,
but it's a memory is a weird thing.
I only remember the old stuff and not so much the new.
How you want to like about Dante Ray's shows is like,
okay, he starts off with the sleep,
and then you go, okay, I see what he's doing there,
and then like to send notified message that he can send yourself a pop-up genius.
It's like, of course, why wouldn't you do that?
Oh yes, oh yes.
I'm amazed nobody's responded to that with the comment, but there you go.
Yeah, I don't know, I'm sure people sort of squirrel them away,
and well, that's good, but yeah,
but it's one of those things that's like sort of wallpaper,
isn't it? It's the thing you say,
well, that's nice, but you don't come to anybody on it or
take a picture of it or something, I don't know.
Go on, sorry, sorry, I interrupted you.
I was just going to say, I meant to respond to this,
I keep saying this every month and didn't, but yeah, it's really good.
Yeah, I should do that as well, and then just read out my thoughts on the day.
But we must remember as well that they're during the summer period in the Northern
Hemisphere, they're the lot less commenting going on,
so there's less people around, just people on vacations and stuff.
So you can expect comments next month for these shows.
Kevin discusses his Badger 2040 from the Pi Mori thing,
and I have bookmarked this 17 times in order to buy it,
but I keep forgetting to do so.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I do actually have one I bought one night just ago in the first came out,
and I've not done anything with it, I guess.
It's definitely on the to-do list.
I expect it to be there for our own competitive.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, so I should buy another one and wear them front and back, I think.
Exactly, thank you.
Just in case people don't know, it's an all-nighter, all-nighter, all-nighter,
eating display, which is in the form of a badge, it's kind of, kind of cool.
And so programmable in Python?
Yeah, yeah, cool.
Yes, so the following day, first show from Toronto Coaster, excellent handle,
with an excellent interview, Kreaser, talking to the author of Kreaser,
and absolutely fantastic, absolutely fantastic.
Yeah, it's a very impressive piece of software.
I often haven't done anything of an artistic nature with it, but it's great for adding captions
and generally fiddling around with images and that type of thing, and it's nice and approachable.
Yeah, it's a good show, I enjoyed that.
Again, my, I don't think good episode can go past me referencing
the paper in Paris, the devil Roy uses to do all his comic strips.
So, excellent piece of software, there's one comment left.
Do you want to do that?
Yes, Kevin O'Brien says, I love the show.
It's great hearing more about Kreaser, it's one of the packages I like to use.
But anyway, once you see what you can do with it, check out the webcomic,
and get it by David Reeve Roy.
I should have shut up, and that's it.
It's Joseph's London, hey, you did.
Tricky.
Right, Alexander's introduction, Kevin's son, Alexander, introduces himself to the HPR
community, and this was a brilliant show, great introduction.
Who says you have to be a great beard in order to be on HPR?
I think he did it amazing.
Well, actually, there was some mention of being nervous,
as one has a right to be, but it didn't, it didn't come across,
I, he sounded very confident, you know, maybe, you know, I was really hard to tell,
he was nervous, I think, and he did a brilliant job,
brilliant job, and the accolades come falling in from Henry Kerman.
Thank you for the first show.
Thanks, Alexander, for your first episode.
I had to look up, uh, develop in the map.
I've never been further north than the border area.
That is the Newcastle region several times, and trips along the wall.
That's heavions will.
But your place is far up in the north, interesting listening to your experience and interests.
And a comment from Dave Lee, the love bag.
Congratulations on your first show.
Fantastic to hear you on it, and it's your own correspondent.
I look forward to your next one, and Peter Patterson,
Solus Spiders has excellent introduction.
Greetings, Alexander, excellent introduction, indeed.
I get the strong impression you're a gamer.
Arena has been sent this link from her own listening pleasure.
So we need to get him on here to do the, uh, to do the game reviews,
that one, enjoying us are at least, uh,
something in them and we can edit them in.
Yeah, nice thought.
So the following day, we had the New Year's e-show, uh, episode three,
and this one, all lots of stuff for autism,
you know, bathroom problems, blood pressure, various different, uh,
medicines, T-mobile, uh, gelettes,
train, free BSD, think pads, amigas, android, and Levi jeans.
So you get the idea of the type of conversations that goes on on a three hour show.
Yes, yes, yes.
I'm still catching up.
I'm a friend, so I never know about this one yet.
It's, uh, it's a lot of listening in these easy shows.
An excellent show notes, I'd come through the links of the show notes before I listen to the
shows, um, in order to, you know, have an idea of what to go on and you're following a link
from Levi jeans, and the next thing you're doing, uh, some weird hardware from 60 years ago,
and then you jump back and forth.
It's just such an eclectic mix of stuff.
It's very interesting.
Yeah, yeah, oh, yes.
A lot of hard work's gone into the lighting or this stuff.
It's brilliant.
So the following day, episode 4160 was past keys, and this is a hooker looking at past keys
and their impact on security.
Uh, this one, uh, I found very, uh, very enlightening and very, uh, very useful, actually,
on the topic that I haven't actually spent a lot of time even considering or, or thinking about.
So, yeah, same here, I knew, I knew the term, and I'd heard reference, but I hadn't really looked
it up to, so it was really useful to get an introduction like this and lots of links to, uh, to follow
excellent.
And as a result of this, I've seen some scary stuff going past, uh, about past keys and have been
more otherwise, I would have just let them go, not worrying too much, but, uh, yeah, it's, uh,
it's good, good stuff.
Yeah, being alerted to these things is, it's quite a helpful thing, isn't it?
So, uh, building a retro game console with Razer Repi, Kevin was talking about his experience
in doing so, um, and to the price was 151 euro pounds, and it's, uh, yeah, it looks, uh,
looks for all the world like a retro gaming console, actually.
Yeah, it, it, uh, it does sound quite good, it does sound quite good, but, you know,
it's a great, great subject, and it's, uh, it's quite an interesting thing to, to build, actually,
it looks really, really good, and it would have been better with the Razer Repi 5, he says, sir.
Yeah, and a four.
Okay, excellent show and good review all in all.
So, moving on, the Hitchbure music project, the walking tune from Apple Go.
I have a new way, and go, uh, Han, uh, Halat from Apple Go.
Yep.
Absolutely, I'm definitely, definitely right, absolutely.
So, yes, my, my Swedish, my Swedish, uh, knowledge is, is about zero.
Falky says, for those, a little bit confounded by friends rabbling of the notes.
There is a place on the net where you can find the notes, and it's, uh,
Falkweb.se music, uh, forward slash 888.
It has a little bit more, uh, ornaments than in the version that are used for playing,
which you will get to hang about as Fred said, there's no definitive version in traditional music.
I hope next time there will speak with me before posting something,
so information like this could be put directly into the show notes.
Nah, that's what we have the comments.
But you could do, Falky, do a collaborative show with Fred.
Yeah, yeah, it's, um, quite good.
I enjoyed this.
It's an interesting tune.
It's sort of a classical classic sort of old-fashioned folk tune type of thing,
you know, it's, it's got a lot, a lot to say for it.
It's similar to some Scottish music and Irish music and so forth there.
Yeah, similar in ways, yeah.
Cool.
The next day, reintroduce myself, myself while just posting
Samba and tiny computers.
This is Al.
And, uh, yeah, uh, got a thing center M711 from eBay and built a, uh,
so, hello.
Hi.
Okay, what part of that, didn't you guess?
You were talking about Think Center.
Then you, you're, you're suddenly cough.
Okay.
Have you called some of the show?
Yeah, it's, it's interesting.
The, the Samba thing, uh, was interesting.
I've not tried it, so I've never needed Samba.
But, uh, yeah, and the cheap computer point was, was interesting too,
because, you know, there's, there's a lot of things out there that you could grab and turn into,
uh, you know, surplus stuff that you could turn something useful.
Um, and it's good to hear some, uh, some actual experiences in that area.
So yeah, very good.
I'm, uh, reading this one with interest actually because, uh, I'm thinking of doing something
similar, but yeah, I'm, the issue I'm having is I have some money,
little raspberry pikes now that together, there are running dunes, several tasks.
So I imagine my power consumption will be a lot less if I had a smaller and PC,
and just consolidate everything out.
Yeah, but proxmox on it as, as, as our has done.
And, uh, yeah.
Yeah, that sounds, sounds good.
It's somebody, um, somebody could do a show on proxmox, uh, ideally the, uh,
the licensing aspect of it and, uh, why you would want to use it, uh, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
But concerns me a little bit is they, is they open core nature of it.
So yeah, I don't know that much about it.
I just know that it's there when people do use it for, for sort of lab, uh, project type things,
run a lot of services.
So yeah, I would be interested in that too.
So the following day, we had Lee with postgraduate computing, uh, in the open university.
And, well, this is tough, uh, tough goal, tough goal.
Yeah, that was my question.
Absolutely, absolutely.
The, um, yeah, I don't know much about MSN computer science.
My son did one, but he was specializing in, uh, in AI stuff.
Um, yeah, I thought it should really well explained.
Modules taken towards the degree sounded a bit challenging, actually.
I wouldn't want to do that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, but good, excellent to, to hear it and have some idea of the open university and, uh,
what it's like to be a student, they know, it's quite, uh, quite an insight.
I don't know how many people know a lot about the, the open university these days.
It's, it's sort of not quite as visible as it used to be back in the day, where you'd see all of
the lectures on the telly.
That type.
Yeah, very cool, very good.
A circle of moss, where I interview moss bliss, the barred and the podcaster.
It's very, it's just good.
It's a very good, actually.
Yeah, yeah.
It's interested to hear moss's experience and all this sort of stuff.
And he's performing, um, experience as well.
He's, he's quite a many faceted, uh, individual.
So, very, very interesting.
And when you record it twice, because I just want absolute amests the first time.
So, um, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Anyway, um, Frey says wonderful discussion.
Great to hear from some of the else in East Tennessee.
So many people associate Tennessee with Nashville.
Love releasing, we have a completely different environment on the other side of the
Kumberland plateau, environmentally, socially, politically and more,
already poking around bar camp to hear more moss music.
Thank you, moss bliss and Ken Khan.
You're welcome.
Tray.
Cool.
I see in my future a, uh, a, a moss bliss and tray studio.
See,
sitting in some car parks and we're recording a show.
What, I hope we haven't set it trend there.
What could possibly go wrong?
So the next day we had everybody organize software freedom day, uh, by trollocoster.
And it is essentially a cold action to, uh, to do this.
We've had a few people on in the past, uh, doing software freedom day, uh, work.
I think a lot of this, um, you know, meet ups and stuff,
die out during COVID and, you know, was, was already winding down a little bit,
because the old guard was, was standing down.
And then, uh, COVID really just
ruined it for one reason.
Get off our bots and meet up again.
They are quite important things to, to do, I think.
I, uh, I rather miss the Edinburgh, uh, and it's used a group that I used to go to.
As did Mr X, actually, and, um, uh, yeah, they, they, they folded.
And, uh, no real sign of them coming back.
And, uh, I think a lot of the venues that, that they like to choose, um,
closed as well, you know, so it's, uh, it's messed up everything.
Yeah, yeah.
So, Beezer sent in removing another obstacle to recording a hpour show.
Not everybody is comfortable speaking with an audience directly.
And Beezer addresses this problem.
What do you think of this?
Well, I have a certain amount of sympathy with it, because when I first started in
HBR, although I used to get called upon to speak in some contexts.
I had to do teaching at one point in my last job, uh, for a few years.
And I, hey, you're doing it.
I quite enjoyed the content, but I hated standing up with front of people and talking.
I do understand the public speaking thing, but I don't know, it's, it's very hard to
be a good critic of yourself.
I was very critical of myself, having just carried on and done it.
I just don't care anymore.
And that's exactly it.
Beezer's got a great delivery.
I've always been delighted with the way he does his episodes.
When he speaks to me, he has a good voice.
He has a nice accent.
Um, he's from the, from the sort of London region, I would go to London, Kent,
that sort of area, which is where I originated from.
So it sounds, sounds like home, in some respects.
Yeah, I think, but, you know, if that's how you feel, that's the way you feel.
And the text to speech is a solution.
And this sounded pretty good, actually.
Yeah, good stuff.
Good stuff.
I, I, I was surprised I was Beezer, because, you know,
his shows have been radio voice.
Worthy, you know, if he was selling me a soap dispenser,
I would be listening to, you know, that's, that's sort of voice.
So yeah, good.
Yeah.
The voice was some authority, I always thought.
And, you know, somebody to, to be, to listen to, to attend to you.
And yeah, yeah, be sad not to hear his voice again.
But it's his choice, obviously.
But if this works out better, that's fine.
Who, who are we to, to argue?
We'll take the show.
Indeed, indeed.
Yand economic recovery.
How to lower your anxiety level as an archivist.
And this one had me very interested.
Respect, especially from my age, for your point of view,
I am not a lawyer.
This is not advice, but it is the practical advice.
That was gone, okay, how's this one about?
So the show was about, about the use of the term
beyond economic recovery.
And we had Henrik, again, commenting,
where in the world and the interest to,
where in the world and the interest to preserve.
I believe it should be taken into consideration,
where in the world the legal owner is located,
where the archiver is located,
and where the archivist is located,
where the archivist is located.
Secondly, without knowing, I would expect
that several legal owners would not mind
that there, that many of their old products are preserved
if asked for permission.
Do you have any experience of that?
Good question, actually.
Trickster replies to Henrik.
In my experience, it depends on the person and their involvement
in the project, whether or not they mind
if their works are preserved.
I've received all kinds of responses from apathy
to excitement to anger that their words
works are preserved.
I've had people ask me to remove archived items
and I've also had people bend over backwards
to send me versions in source code, not yet online.
Really depends on each situation.
However, I personally don't care if they want
their works preserved or not.
I don't ask permission if their work was originally
internationally made public
because by making a public, they have lost
in quotes their right to control access.
This varies from country to country
and legal system to legal system.
Yep.
Yep.
That goes back to the whole copyright thing
that the word itself means
you have a right for this copy to be made.
And then you have to ask, well, who's given that right?
And people say it's the author,
but actually it's not the author.
The author has been given the copyright
by the people or the royal class,
depending on where you live.
Or giving that monopoly over this work
that you get the right to copy your stuff.
So it's not something that you have.
It's something that's been given to you by us.
And quick pro pro is that at some point,
we get that by giving you a monopoly
and the use of that for a period of time.
Then we get that in public, which is my.
So going all through a rant here,
a bunk copyrighter works.
Maybe I should do a show.
Anyway, my feeling is that, yeah,
in order to have a copyright,
you should at least be able to have access to the stuff.
Back in the day, you had to release
copies of your physical copies of the material work
into three different libraries on the,
the Trinity libraries.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All that's changed now, Dave.
It's all changed just back in the day.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's not necessarily in a good way.
No, no.
So we had the HPR community comes together
for a new year's Eve show.
And Rob says, one person talking,
this was two hours of one person talking.
Yeah, as maybe he was, you know,
joined it yourself, Rob, yeah.
Yeah, I've not heard this one yet,
but it's some interesting subjects there.
I'm looking forward to hearing a bit about the more.
Yeah, yes, cool.
Somebody takes into a week video big time.
It's, it's, it's fascinating.
So playing civilization part three,
part five.
This did my head in when I was posting all the shows.
I just post part three or part five.
And it's part of the strategy game thing
that's who goes doing and we commented on this before.
And it gives you lots of resources there about
civilization on fandom.com
and difficulty level gameplay and stuff.
Lots of, as always, lots of links in who gives shows
for more information.
Yeah, yeah.
And that was the final one in that series.
That was what I was just about to say.
Yes, it, he, he, he surprised me a little bit
that I was the last one, but.
Yeah, moving on to other other fun things.
So Al has been renovating his bathroom.
So I wonder how much of this is going to be a shock
to the US people along us.
Because when I came to the Netherlands,
toilets and bathrooms are just so different.
It's, it's standardized now a lot.
But it always amazes me when I go back to Ireland.
They unstandardized this
on the toilets in Ireland.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's,
you know, it was fascinating.
I thought he was very brave to take on such a thing.
I've paid other people to do this in my, absolutely.
I have, I have done plumbing and, uh, you know,
that bit we were groveling about underneath the sink,
doing the fixing the, uh, the, the,
the you bendy pipe thingy and stuff.
You can't reach your, you need special tools to,
to do things up and undo the, and I said, never again,
I'm not doing that again.
Especially when you drop things on your head as you lean
underneath, yeah, it's probably just me being incredibly clumsy.
But nevertheless, it's, uh, it seemed like a,
a fun thing to do.
So yeah, good, good to him for taking on the challenge.
And, uh, yeah, you got it done.
And I left for shower as well.
That, that's something that always freaks up the tourists
when they come to Ireland.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He lives in Norfolk and, uh,
Norfolk is, is, uh, no tourists for having poor water pressure
because it's a flat area.
And, uh, it says water, thousand stuff all over the place.
You don't get in Scotland here.
You get a hell of a water pressure.
Yeah, but, um, yeah.
So yeah, he's, uh, you need something that will pump it as well as
in gravity feeds and stuff and maybe not all that good.
So the next day we had, uh,
uh, Archer 72 demonstrates using the up directory for the
Piper executables.
And I won't go through all the comments on this
because it's essentially a tune for, uh,
with Archer 72, where I have an error on Fedora.
And, uh, he points me to another repo and then I get another error
and then he wants me to, in fact, that, uh, I need to
use command correctly because I'm a moron on the project.
Well, I got to work in today and, uh,
I need to do something to stuff with it.
So very good.
Very good.
Cool.
Thank you.
Yeah, Archer.
Finally, we might be seeing, uh, we might be seeing the,
this featuring now in the HBR workflow.
So that's, that's good.
Very cool.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a, yeah, it does work on this area.
It's, uh, it's impressive.
I can master these things.
It's a him.
Yeah, brilliant.
Uh, the following day we have CIFT 110 with, uh,
adding storage to Macbook Pro,
died and then you replaced it.
Oh, custom Apple Harbor.
It's sucky.
Yes, yes.
I, uh, yeah, I, yes, it's one of those things with, you know,
if you can do it, that's fantastic.
It's, um, not always possible.
And that's, uh, frustrating.
Yeah, with, with Apple hardware and stuff.
So I find that, uh, sorry, the SSDs, I think,
worry me a little because, uh,
all the spinning drives also worry.
It's just the life cycles of them are very, very low.
Yeah, and, uh, and it does, like once they fail, that's it.
Goodbye, Galala, you know, I'm done.
Yep, yep.
Yeah, I lost, uh, I was running a media wiki,
wiki on one of my Raspberry Pi's and
my backups were not doing what they should be doing.
Or I wasn't anyway, whatever, but when the reason it all died
and disappeared was because of SSD when,
there's a cheaper way SSD going back many years.
So I guess I got what I deserved in some respects, but to,
there's a bit of a shock that suddenly went bam and that was it.
Nothing, nothing.
No, no chance of recovering anything.
Yeah, exactly.
So the following day we had finally,
hello, hang on, hang on, is that not the first of August
the following day after 30 post of June, July?
It is in my book.
Yeah, but I'd like to talk about it if that's okay.
Cause I don't want to put this off for a lot of months.
I'll stop doing my impression of an idiot then.
Okay.
So it's, uh, there was, there was a lot of, um,
I'd love to talk about the future of HBR,
prompted by, um, nightwise, the show and, um,
and so I put in the, the response that just took me a long time to do the response.
So I'd appreciated if everybody had a listen to that show and, um,
could comment on it and then we could, we can discuss it in the next episode.
And so, uh, it's a feature of HBR as, uh, applies to HBR itself.
Um, so if you're going to skip over some shows,
have a listen to that one, I would appreciate it.
Your thoughts and feedback would be appreciated as well.
And also if you could, um, any of the topics if they're not clear or any of the points
that I make, if it's not clear, uh, can you, um, I have stacks of paper on each of the points.
So, um, I'm not, I'm not just seeing the stuff out of, out of my, yeah.
I, uh, I did a lot of work to try and make to support each of these statements.
Okay.
So what's next?
We missed a comment last month, I think, because it came in just after we,
while we were recording.
Um, and that was from, uh, me to a Kevin's show about the P5, some initial thoughts.
And I said in the comment, I mentioned in the community news of the show that I'd recently watch
a video comparing the Intel N100 and the Raspberry Pi 5.
And I referenced a video from Michael Clements, uh, on YouTube where he talks specifically about
these things. He's quite an interesting, uh, YouTuber, um, in the area of Raspberry Pi's, etc.
So I'm loading that now. I think I've watched, oh yeah, I did, I watched that.
And that had me thinking for the last month, Dave, this.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's, um, yeah, there's a few other people who've made those comparisons.
I think Jeff Galing did a show on it as well.
But that, that one was the last, was the one I'd seen just, just recently.
It seemed pretty good.
Yep.
Um, we have two other comments on previous shows.
One was, uh, probably said to the Roy, uh, mining the web and commenters from HODs,
Federated DB of domains.
Would be really cool to share our domain lists with each other, sort of like how PFSense shares
blacklists and whitelists. We would use Federated and redundant DB to reduce,
uh, resource costs and improve performance.
Would also be good to ping subdomains randomly from different IPs to avoid being shadow banned
and missing some important domains.
Anyone have any source code they use for this kind of subdomain enumeration work.
And Cedric replies, follow up, he says, been sometimes, since I posted this, and I didn't notice
these comments before. So, and he replies to Norris who comments, um, make, I'll see to make a
follow-up this month, get a bit deeper into how stuff was built.
Henry, come in. Thanks for your support and hubs. There are a number of alternatives available
for this. Most famously, DNS enum enum, which also gets shipped with Kelly.
Kelly, next up, be I guess.
Yep. And Chief Computers by Moss Blitz had a comment by DNT, used corporate computers.
Thank you for this. I've been thinking about doing this for a while. After some research,
I bought a Lenovo ThinkCenter M900SFF small factory computer. It was less than $50 an eBay,
and the only thing wrong with it was the front USB port store work. It's very upgradable.
I haven't had a desktop computer in 20 years. Thanks.
So, the mailing list discussions. So far, there's been feedback from Nightwise on the show.
And it says, I wanted to reply, um, and it's posted by me, but it's on behalf of Nightwise,
with his permission. I wanted to reply via the comments section to this latest show,
but I got an article when I posted the reply. I guess I just proved my theory that the comments
says to us outdated. The fact that I have to submit this via the mailing list is ironic at best.
First, respect. Thank you for your show. I am honored that my small show has created so much
comment on the feedback. I'm a plea that we do not have enough interaction. I have created more
responses to response shows than I only hosted in the last year. Going global to your comments,
social media equals your competitors. No social media platforms are a way to get new
listeners and hosts. To the alternatives we have, the comment feels to the post outdated. The
mailing list is more outdated. Recording the show to big of an effort from 9% of the listeners.
Matrix channel. Not even promoted. We don't even promote the ways of being a community.
Listeners to host conversion. I would like to do a survey of all our hosts, see who recorded
a show before having listened to the show is even more than 0.01%. Having said that, we don't need
listeners who have hosts is just plain and correct. Value of the listener. Audience and popularity
are important. The goal of the community is to get tech ideas out there, not to mumble about
the void. I don't want likes, but I do want to make a difference to somebody. The rescue
or our lifetime system, it's a sign that we are not doing the right thing to entice people to
join the community and record a show. Burned out hosts. Well, yes, of course hosts burn out.
There's no feedback on the community. They're screaming into the void. If you want to talk about
somebody who doesn't listen, I'll ramble up my dog guilty by association. As the barter
contribution gets lower and lower due to fewer hosts and shows the risk of show with controversial
topics rise. Even associated as a host means that you are affiliated with whatever is put out there.
And there is a serious risk to somebody's image reputation since the internet never forgets.
In conclusion, it seriously sounds like you're locked up in a monastery preaching to the choir and
you don't even care if anyone's listening anymore. What I sense is from the episode is that you are
in fact not a community in that we are a monastery that is ruled by the vocal few who stick to the
chorus even if the water is flooding the decks. The only thing to me is that will essentially change
the future future which we are is airing over its last episode. I have done my bit for the king in
country. I will shortly be submitting my last response show before signing off as a host.
This isn't because you disagree with my views. It's because as not only before me I feel like
I'm burned out and not tilting will mills but I'm shouting into the void. And can you do the other
few bag please? So the other card the other email getting confused about comments and emails
is from Brian Neverett. Brian Nohiro I believe. And he says comment symbols.
Can't confuse so they might tongue twisting. The comment system is simple as to shows on an android
phone using antenna pod. But I want to comment the app has a link to the website. There you
add your comment and then the hardest thing is trying to figure out what the pee me in the form.
I don't post shows to get a million listens. I post shows because I think might be interesting
to others. If it isn't say lovey. Okay I'm interested to hear all the people's thoughts and that's
next month. Should we move on today or be? Indeed. Can you do that? Just try to find a person I'm
going to say. Okay I'll do the spectrum 24 conference. So this is at the spectrum 24 conference I'm
going to be given a talk about ham radio on the HPR network. And there's currently call for boots
open. And if people want to attend that and can you get in touch please. As was said on the
U random show that in person contact is the only way really to get new hosts despite what
anybody else might think. I tend to agree with that. And going to the shows is very important.
Having a presence there is very important. Talking to people is very important. If you were in
Paris at the end of September around that time it would be great if you could come and help out
with the boot. I'm not going to do it if it's just myself. But if there's more than if there's
another person or indeed more people than having a boot there would be fantastic. So please get
in touch. Admin.com public radio.org. That would be great. Thank you. So the bit that I was having
difficulty finding is in the wrong tab was I'm talking about repairing or I'm calling repairing
shows where the external files have been lost. So quite a number of HPR shows have got external
files. That's things like pictures and videos, examples, scripts and configuration files and so on.
And during the move to the current static site they won't copy it over and the shows on the HPR
server have been incomplete since then. Internet archive versions are complete because they'd
pretty much all been snap-shotted before the move. So I'm in a process to repair these shows and
I'm progressing. It relies on the fact that there are copies of the lost files on the Internet archive
and on a backup disk. And these being copied across the HPR server and linked into shows again.
So because we've changed the architecture with the layout of the directories a little bit so
they do need re-linking. We're restoring the missing parts of shows one at a time. I say,
it's me. The process is I don't work. It's only a one person thing though because I haven't created it
to be shareable as is my want. It's still complicated to do shareable. Anyway the process is largely
automated. I've got some scripts that do most of the poking around to work out what needs to be
where. I'm gradually adding more automation to it as time allows and I'm going to document it in
the AOB and so to start the ball rolling dated are yesterday. I haven't done any work on it today
because there are I compute there are 352 shows that need this action managed to do 148
that leaves 204 to be done. It's again complicated now though because the ones I've done
they were all in a formatted in a way that was easy to spot what was what and put them in the
right places. Now it's got a little bit more difficult so I'm having to redraft my script a bit
so I can a few days for it to get back into it. Anyway we're making progress and I didn't put it into
the AOB bus gym devoy volunteered to help out with the pod catcher dog catcher which is mentioned
in my show which you'll hear which was released on the first of the month and I have volunteered
to help out with that so that's still open. I haven't done a lot with that but it is on the list
just I want to thank Jim for helping out there. Okay and with that there's some editing to be done
on the show I'm afraid if yes yes hopefully there's enough time to do it. Yes exactly. Okay I think
that's all thanks very much for taking the time and tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Packer public radio. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio
does work. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought
of recording podcasts you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
sings.net. On this advice status today's show is released on their creative commons attribution 4.0
International License.
