Episode: 4253
Title: HPR4253: A brief introduction of myself
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4253/hpr4253.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:04:01

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4253 for Wednesday the 20th of November 2024.
Today's show is entitled A Brief Introduction of Myself.
It is hosted by King Hezzi and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, where King Hezzi briefly introduces himself.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, King Hezzi.
This is my long-do second episode.
I will use this to briefly introduce myself.
I have been listening to HPR for a couple of years and recorded my first episode two years ago.
I know I have not done my part in keeping HPR going.
This is my attempt to try to contribute.
Professionally, I have come up through coding and am currently doing project management.
Projects I help manage are software projects for the internal software we develop within the company I work for.
The company primarily uses Microsoft products, so the typical Microsoft products are used within the office,
office suite across the office, digital studio for the software development team.
In college, I got into Linux at home for a while in my wife and I have shared a desktop computer that is Windows.
One of my job involves a lot of work with Windows.
My real preference is being on Linux.
This year at home, I have finally come back to Linux by purchasing an old ThinkPad.
Well, in college, I messed around with various Linux, Unix, BSD, distributions.
I have settled on using Debian in college, which is a Linux distribution.
I have often used Debian testing as sort of a rolling release.
Rolling release refers to the fact that you don't re-install for a new version to get new updates continuously.
I don't have a ton of time for tinkering with work and having a busy time after.
My wife and I have four living kids who are between the ages of three and twelve.
We've gotten the children more in discourse within the past year, and that's less than other personal reasons.
I don't have a lot of time to mess around.
This won't come into play due to the nature of what Hacker Public Radio focuses on,
but I am a Christian and have an interest in studying theology.
I know that Hacker Public Radio probably has interest in.
I have started to study for a ham radio license technician for those in the USA.
I may have some future topics on that, but I don't want to over-promise based on past experience.
If there are other topics that can easily fit shows in on topics that interest me,
I will try to record more.
I have some ideas, but again, I don't want to promise as I haven't had a good track record.
In the words of Confel and the Dave Morris, tune in tomorrow for another
a setting episode of Hacker Public Radio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listening like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
