Episode: 4334
Title: HPR4334: 24-25 New Years Eve show episode 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4334/hpr4334.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:18:35

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4334 for Thursday the 13th of March 2025.
Today's show is entitled 24-25 New Year's Eve Show Episode 3.
It is hosted by Honki Megu and is about 112 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HBR community comes together to say happy New Year and chat.
Those look like some interesting violins, Fred.
Yes, one of them is the darker one actually is a violin, but the lighter one is a viola.
It is technically three-fourth, three-quarter size, but it is the exact same size as a violin.
So you see where I start them?
Yeah.
Well, I don't speak violin, but I always admire the fact that it has none of the guidance
and stuff.
It is really a bit more fly by the seat of your pants than let's say a guitar, which
has frets and everything.
Yeah, but honestly, I kind of think that frets can be hindrance in many cases.
I mean, my actual main instrument, which currently isn't in my room, because I recently
yesterday or so, I built a new bookcase and I had to clear most of my room to have enough
space to pack to get all the books out of my old one and the books into it.
I had to put moving boxes in my room to put all my books in, so I had to move it outside
there.
But my main instrument, which I have made several episodes about, is the nickel hopper.
And that has kind of frets, but it's not really frets, it's keys.
Love the sound of that nickel hopper.
Yeah.
Wait, I might just get it.
I don't believe knowingly I've ever heard anything about the nickel hopper.
Yeah.
If you give me a second, I could give you the episode numbers of what's that I did about
it.
Don't worry about it.
I'm just saying that I admire somebody who's passionate about their instruments.
I have what they call ashburgers syndrome, so I'm known for intense interest in a number
of stuff.
Yeah.
I have that too.
Well, nice to meet you, cousin.
Oh, wait.
It's full.
He just came in with his nickel hopper.
Let me just get my video on.
Here we go.
Fred, your video image is frozen.
Uh, better now.
Nothing right now.
No movement.
Nah, or do I have to, you know, or do I have to get in, uh, or do I have to get in again?
Or I might need to change my, uh, push the talk, uh, hot key because I, uh, I just searched
for a key that I don't use, uh, very often and took the menu, uh, the list key, which
means that every time I, uh, push the talk, uh, I open the menu.
I've, uh, I've done a reload.
Now, now your video seems to be relatively okay.
There's a little grainyness, but that's, that's just your sweater and the camera disagreeing.
Yeah, my webcam is, uh, isn't the best.
But, uh, well, here's my, here's my nid smut.
Yeah, whoa, that looks impressive, um, incredible craftsmanship, I can tell.
Yeah, uh, the thing about, uh, Niktirhapua, or, uh, is that, um, they were never, uh, serialized.
You, uh, the, the nearest thing you had to that was building kids, but you still have to,
like, build them, uh, build them yourself.
So your instrument is your instrument, huh?
Yeah, but I, I actually didn't build it, um, this specific instrument is 30 years older than I am.
Oh, I'm just saying handcrafted is handcrafted.
I mean, this has my utmost respect and, yeah, of course I couldn't carry a tune with a, uh, iPhone in a bucket.
Yeah, um, I'm, I'm gonna try to, uh, get my hotkey to something else than, uh, the menu thing,
because it just messes, uh, too much up.
So several people have mentioned video, um, how do, how do we view video?
I'm audio-owns, like, I'm mumble.
And now it's a, uh, uh, it's a, um, Jitzi server, um, if someone has the link or otherwise, I'll just post it in here shortly.
I just dropped a link in the, uh, the room chat here.
Thank you so much.
No problem.
Hey, lovecraft, nice to hear from you.
Yeah, I'm gonna hear from you too.
How you been doing?
All right, um, if you check your email, you'll probably find another one of my ramblings.
All righty, I'll do that a little bit later.
Glad to hear you're well.
Well, I'm doing all right.
And I hope you and your lady are doing well.
Yeah, she's still a little under the weather, but she, um, she made it to work today.
I think the, I think her office closes early, not sure if the market closes, uh, early today or not, but she's, uh, she's gonna be done to three.
Well, if you need to leave our scintillating company for greener pastures, that, that will be understood.
I'll be in it out for a while.
Sorry, as an old bachelor, I have to tease the guys who actually have a partner.
Uh, that's fine.
Oh, Fred, that was a pretty impressive instrument.
You were holding up there.
What, what was that, uh, what was that item called?
I missed it.
All right.
Now, yes, uh, this is for a kid.
Oh, okay.
Hey, how you doing?
Um, got the contrary because, uh, you're in my headphones.
That's cool.
You got to be able to play any of that for us later on or?
Yeah, I, I could, I could play a song if you wanted to, but then I, uh, would probably have to, uh, change the push to talk or something.
All right.
Well, no pressure, but if you feel like it, um, yeah, it looks, that was very impressive.
I don't think I've ever seen one of them before.
Yeah, because they, um, they might, uh, and like the rest of the world, they might not be that common.
Uh, I mean, I, I live in Sweden.
It's, uh, one of the places where it's, where it's most prevalent.
Very cool.
Yeah.
Just, just showing full keyword to put, uh, where to get the hot key, uh, for push to talk.
Now, you use two hands for the nickel opera and then you use your toe for push to talk.
It'll work.
Okay.
That, that would be a pretty funny one.
But I, uh, but I might have to like get, um, uh, put, uh, put my post to talk on, uh, on the, um, blank space or something instead.
Okay.
I've changed it now and I think Falky has understood how it works.
I've been all sick.
Well, but then also I would, uh, it might not fall to bed too well because well, you know, I'd have to know.
I'd also have to, uh, play around with a microphone quite a lot for it to not, uh, sound, uh, very bad.
Of course, this audience wouldn't know if it was played bad, sounded bad.
Uh, no, no, the thing is that, um, because, uh, because it has resonance, uh, strings and a resonance chamber and some other, uh, for some other reasons.
It's a pretty loud instrument, actually.
Uh, maybe not as loud as, uh, uh, clarinets, but, uh, my brother plays, uh, the mandolin.
And, uh, and every time, uh, and every time, uh, which is pretty, um, rarely, every time we play together, always complains that I'm too loud.
It's just my instrument being loud.
Um, I don't know many instruments of that kind, but, uh, reminds me of the lap steel if I'm reading that right.
Uh, the what?
There's a guitar like instrument, which is played and plucked, uh, horizontally.
Not, it isn't worn like a regular guitar or, or other stringed instrument.
I've seen it used in some country music, but not many other places.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, okay.
I might, uh, my, uh, for, for to just came in and, uh, set the steel guitar.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I know.
Uh, now I know what happens.
Well, this is a steel guitar, but it looks a bit like your instrument.
So I just had to get my keyboard outside my, so now I might even be able to play in it.
But just putting my keyboard on the ground.
Well, your efforts will be appreciated regardless of results.
Okay.
Uh, let's, let me get over there and get my instrument.
Okay.
Yeah.
Did it work?
It worked.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Awesome stuff.
And with, with both a bowl, both a bowl and, and buttons to push.
I mean, that's a busy guy.
That's a busy process.
So now I love me.
Hello, Trey.
I don't think we've spoken.
Really?
That's a much around the neighbor.
And was that walk around in Tennessee?
No, that's Jacksonville, Florida.
That's more towards the beach, actually.
I live near to Jacksonville Beach.
The city of Jacksonville Beach, Florida than I do, Jackson.
I mean, literally in Jacksonville, Florida, but it's so big that I'm right on the border roots.
You might as well say.
Yeah.
Well, I'm in the Boston area and I know how urban sprawl.
My little town is tucked away in a little southern corner of things.
That's like 75 out today and slightly sunny right now.
So I figured I'd try to, I'm trying to do my 20,000 steps a day.
I'm trying to get a little bit more in instead of eating lunch.
My, my brother used to live around Fort Myers, Florida.
Every hurricane season we were watching the maps as the hurricanes would go east of him, west of him, north of him, south of him.
They've been here a few times.
They knocked out our peer.
We have a really long peer now.
It's about time.
Oh, interesting thing is he moved up to South Carolina, the next, and then the next hurricane season.
Would you like to guess where the hurricanes came ashore?
That'd be North Carolina.
How are you so nice to live in?
Well, the thing, the thing is that he's now based out of, of Missoula, Montana.
He has very little problem with hurricanes.
It's actually so weird.
You say Montana.
Before I left, my job was trying to transfer an engine on dinner.
And like now, I'm just going to take earlier.
Well, my brother is a long haul trucker and his actual base is the truck that he drives with his wife and their dog.
So he bounces around, he bounces around the country like an atomic particle in a cloud chamber.
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean, there's a time when I thought about it.
I don't know what got me not wanting to be a machine.
Well, Fred, it looks like it's you and me.
Seems like it's something.
So what do you do besides music?
Well, not much.
Fred, you're lying.
Why would I be lying?
You do many much of my English.
Well, I won't even try Swedish.
Don't worry about your English besides.
I'm from the Boston area, which is well known for questionable American standard.
Never mind English.
Yeah, sometime ago I was following a guy on YouTube who was doing caretaking for basically a Scandinavian vacation community.
And his primary job was largely dealing with the snow, keeping the roads open for fire safety, even if people weren't there.
It was a pretty full-time job.
That must have been much further in the north or a completely different year because here it hasn't been snowing like at all.
It was like there was one time in like the end of November or something where there were.
A few flags of snow, but that was it.
We haven't had anything since the beginning of the year.
Christmas Eve, we had something that was maybe a centimeter, something like that.
Wasn't enough to even be called the dusting.
Certainly didn't provide a white Christmas because as soon by afternoon most of it was gone.
We have what else to do.
I do a mean record collecting a bit.
I mean, it might be a spoiler, but there is a reserve show coming up sometime, which is about my record collected.
Well, my family collected records for some years.
But I think Fred is 17, not 77.
So they were born 34 years to late.
Come on, just because the lowest deck of my bookshelf is full of vinyl records.
That's nothing.
Are you a student, Fred?
Yes.
I am.
Could say that.
It was Fred's mother asking if we should eat.
Well, we might go eat now.
Maybe count back at some point.
We're lovely.
I was not talking to you.
Well, they have a great family.
These international shows have their own challenges.
Enjoy my best to your lovely mother.
Well, thanks.
I mean, this is like the first time I am one active part of the New Year's show.
But last year was the first time I even appeared in the New Year's show.
And that was just a hello.
So, well, see you all at some point.
Yeah, this is supposed to be fun, no pressure.
And as I said, it's nice to meet somebody who thinks a bit the way I do.
It was far more skilled.
Yeah.
Bye.
Have a good year if we are not hearing each other until then.
There is a reason that I wait for this show every year.
Well, actually, there are dozens, but you know.
Well, to whom it may concern, I'll be back in a minute.
I have some household chores to do.
And, you know, connect with my brother, the duty call.
Well, I have a good one.
But I keep an ear out.
Hello, Paul.
I heard a voice.
Who is that?
B.
I'm Kimu.
Oh, okay.
I was afraid I was in here all by myself.
Nope.
I'm here.
Well, happy New Year to you.
Happy New Year to you.
What are you up to today besides sitting here?
I was stalking the HPR New Year's Eve channel.
Yeah.
I am clearing off my workbench of various projects I've started throughout the year and never got around to finishing.
Oh, that's a good idea.
I should probably do that later.
You know, all the little things that the kids break and then I never get around to working on because
well, life always just seems to get in the way.
And what are you doing this period of time wherever you are?
Sounds like the American accent.
Oh, yeah.
Northeast Massachusetts in the US.
Well, I'm trying to see whether it would be better to serve up data on a website using an engine X or a Python script.
So I'm going to try out some testing.
So I do a podcast called Linux Logcasts and we had been putting all of our audio on to archive.org.
And then archive.org had its giant fiasco where they basically shut down for a while.
And so they came back and when they first came back, you could see all of the stuff that was archived, but you couldn't add to it.
So I couldn't back up any of our audio files to there.
So I had to find another way to host our audio files.
I've been hosting them locally.
Initially, I was doing it on pine 64 old pine 64 single board computer and I was having issues where it would see it, but it would time out.
So it would take a while for it to recognize the audio because we use WordPress and for the website WordPress and a plugin with WordPress called power press.
Also called blueberry press, not sure which why it has two names, but does.
And that usually serves up the RSS feed and you basically just pointed to the audio file wherever the heck it is.
And it'll serve up the service to the website, which will surround the RSS.
And usually what it does is it doesn't check as to making sure that it's that it can find the audio file and usually recently.
So recently I'd gotten a orange.
So my theory was that it was having a hard time because the pine 64 single board computer that I had it was only had.
The ethernet cable board on it was only was not gig ethernet.
So it was only a hundred.
So I got four Christmas.
I got a orange pie zero three that has a gig ethernet four gigs of RAM.
And so I moved everything over to that.
And I'm still having basically the same problem where the we host two different files, the org file and an MP3 file.
It's had didn't have any problems with the org file actually had a mild problem with the org file, but not really, but the MP3 still timed out.
So we were discussed on the on the podcast, different ways of doing it and.
Minics one of the guys on the show suggested doing serving enough using engine X and he was able to do it and.
It seemed to work out pretty well and the way I was doing it was just a simple Python script that was like one single line and it served it up, but like I said, I was getting lag.
So I'm going to do some testing now where I'm going to basically kill the Python script, I just installed engine X on the orange pie and.
I am going to see whether there is any improvement to the lag being served up by an actual web server as opposed to just.
Python script and going from there.
Oh, it definitely sounds you've got like you've got your work cut out for you.
Oh yeah, lots of fun.
I actually wanted to try running a not an entire server, but just a website on a on a raspberry pico to use that as an interface for like a family calendar type thing that.
Consync can pull down different like Google calendar and or things like that and then also host the web page so that way I can go in and I can add modules or.
Or update things if I need to just feel like using an entire raspberry pie for something like that might be a little overkill.
It depends on how you want to set up I guess I mean I know that.
Next cloud has plugins for a calendaring and stuff like that, but next cloud would definitely not run on a pico.
So calendaring just just free that the straight web like I just I like the idea of using the microcontroller so that way in the event of power loss or things like that.
It can just turn right back on the updating of it is minimal and things like that.
Because my my mother and my mother-in-law both have web connected picture frames, but they keep they keep losing power and they do say don't don't let it lose power.
Just automatically you have to do a safe shutdown and so being able to have the the ability just come right back up and just start where it's supposed to is very appealing.
Hmm. I thought it was interesting. Have you thought about how you wanted to do that?
You're talking about talking about my my project. Yeah.
I have to get through all these other projects first. This is one of those ones that's just kind of floating around in the back of my head.
All right. I have started attempting a web interface. I tried making a what is it?
Is it a web hosted while local internet hosted meat thermometer so I can check on my my grill from inside the house without using Bluetooth that I just open up the web page.
And I can see OK. Here's the temperature. Well, that's cool.
Now the problem is getting the the meat probes to be consistently accurate.
What happens that consistently refresh or no, you know, you get you get the meat probes off of Ali Express or any other website.
The thermal resistor part of it can vary wildly. OK.
So you can't just plug in any old thermal probe. You have to you have to calibrate it.
Right. OK. Make sense. And how is it sending information to the web page?
So it's it's all so you've got the meat. You got the probe. It's got the cable that has basically a one eighth jack on the end.
And that plugs into the box that is connected to that has the the pico on the inside, which then it's a pico w so that connects to my Wi-Fi.
And then I open up the IP address on my phone and I can see the the web page. OK.
Cool. And the the thermal part of that was actually piggybacked off of a project that I had a episode about on HPR with my RF room temperature monitoring system.
Cool.
The episode HPR 4058 if you're interested. I wrote it down.
All right. Hello, honky. Hey, no matter. How you doing? Oh, I'm doing all right. Just just keep keeping my head down doing a few household chores and checking in now and again.
Hey, Joe. Welcome back. Hey, I'm here.
Get fun getting jabbed. I guess that was yes.
Headset's acting all give me a minute. All right. But yeah, I had fun getting jabbed and then the DMV was closed until the third.
Well, that's out for that on Thursday. Second.
Yeah, I'm going to have to get a real ID and make an appointment at the DMV, which is going to be interesting since I'll be going in by public transportation.
Do you have a car subway? No, I don't have a car. I'm looking for ID, not not even a license. Now, how does that impact you stealing a car?
I avoid the driver's seat of vehicles, whether I own them or not. Now, why are you trying to get your real ID? Are you ever plans on flying?
They're useful. Well, that's true.
I have older ID, but the only ID that I have is ancient, which was the ID that I got when I was a teenager so that I could drink.
But also things like Bank of America got studia about my ID because I went there a few months after it expired.
They said, sorry, your ID's expired and I said, well, if you'll notice a little bit, that's my picture and I haven't.
That is true. By the way, generally, don't respond really well to those types of comments.
Well, the fact that I was actually trying to pay my bill, so I was trying to give them money and they still wouldn't take it because they were snooty about taking it because I didn't have the right ID.
Yeah, that's odd. If somebody's giving me money, I don't care who they are. Give me the money. If somebody else wants to pay your bill for you, that shouldn't be their problem. Take the money, run. It's good.
That is fair, but they do have the responsibility to know their customer. They do know their customer. They know the person that holds the account.
But whether that's the person that's actually paying the account or not, shouldn't make as much a difference.
They still need to know where the money is coming from to prevent money laundering and things like that.
When quantities are above what, like $10,000, surely, I don't know, just playing devil's advocate. It's one of the things I do.
Same thing here. Same thing here.
By the way, New York City was trying to rest people for illegal possession of a firearm while they were taking the training required to get a gun permit.
That sounds a lot like New York.
Well, that's like when California mandated that all rifles have a bullet button and then outlawed any devices that had a bullet button.
What is a bullet button?
It's a point on a firearm that can only be depressed by the tip of a bullet.
So that way you can't use your say fingertip in order to like release the magazine. You have to use the tip of the bullet to in theory slow people down from quick changing a magazine.
That's that's California.
Well, California also outlawed civilian ownership of 50 browning rifles, semi-automatic or bolt action.
Now, those are not exactly what what is used to hook up your to hold up your local botega, but they're also cause bear it to stop selling these weapons to California law enforcement.
They also developed the 416 bear it, which was a next down 50 cal with even more extreme ballistics than the original browning.
That's the owners of their weapons could just change barrels and get around California law.
Are you going from a 50 to a 45?
Yeah, 41, 42.
Even the slender, the more slender bullet pushed by a similar powder charge extended the range from like 2000 yards to 2300.
Yeah, but they're less likely to go through a tank.
Perhaps perhaps not one of the original Soviet anti tank rifles was actually eight millimeter.
It had a humongous case and the only thing the Germans did when they captured them is put their Thompson cord bullet eight millimeter bullets on them instead of the whatever metal the Russians were using.
I mean, it's not going to hit, you know, the front of anything, but under the engine decks and, you know, in the track area or whatnot, there were vulnerabilities still left.
Would anyone like to know what the largest caliber air rifle used in military service was?
I'm down for that knowledge.
I believe the Swiss or somebody developed one that was 75 caliber.
And this was like 18th century, so pumping up that that air reservoir was was probably a trip because it did use high pressure air.
Are these what even today passes for pretty high pressure?
That is a rather sizable projectile.
Yep, even a ball is would be unfriendly.
More modern air rifles I've heard go up to like 357 caliber.
What happened with that whole situation with the town trying to force you to hook up to sewage?
Well, it kind of died.
They're allegedly still going to be trying to replace the bridge out front of my property.
And going through my property is still some plumbing, which requires clearance, maybe up to and including the Army Corps of Engineers.
And when they if they should actually decide to replace the bridge and have to deal with those variants, then I can go up to the town and say, could you please throw at me to the list of variants that you're going to be requesting
because you're going to be changing the plumbing that is causing me to causing contractors to say, hooking me up to surges economically unviable.
So they started around here with trying to in the next several years, there's supposed to be putting in sewage and making inventory for people to hook up to it.
Well, they are every few years, they have this, somebody gets a grant or gets some money to replace this bridge and then they put it out for tender and everybody says, that's not enough money.
And I'm just being here, a patient little citizen waiting for them to get there.
Rectal cranial inversion fixed.
Now the odds of them doing that during my lifetime appear to be shrinking, but you know, the horse could learn to sing.
It's the whole mandatory hookup that bothers me considering they want, they're talking, it's like 15 grand or something like that, 15 to 20 grand to hook up to the sewage and it's mandatory.
I'll give you a lovely 2% loan to get it done.
Well, also the surges for that kind of hookup are used to artificially lower the official rates, although if they're having to put in the new sewage infrastructure,
that's going to be a large government line item anyway.
Sewage infrastructure, water treatment plant.
Yeah, we had another two years before they get the start working on the water treatment plant like this, but they've already started putting the piping down.
Well, the thing is that if you don't have your sewage treatment, where is that sewage supposed to go?
Right, also in the toilet.
That's where it starts.
There was an ulcer, and then it disappeared.
We lose that matter?
No.
Okay.
Sewage treatment plants just dump tons of methane into the atmosphere.
In fact, I know some Vermont farms run themselves from the methane of the commonore that the dairy farm produces.
And if you looked at something like deer islands sewage treatment plant, the amount of potential fuel gas that that plant could produce, if it was properly designed, is mind boggling.
And even if they didn't want to plummet into the natural gas system, they could certainly put a gas-powered generation station there and hook the power out put into the grid.
That's unique.
Joe produces a lot of methane.
Did you say Joe does?
Yeah, he produces a lot of methane.
It's a high protein diet.
Methane seems to be a wasted energy source.
Yeah, well, because there's a lot of it.
I know, also speaking of water, there's a company in the Boston area that says that they can find enough leaks in a water system to save the price of their services in six months.
Or their services are free.
And since I had to pay to have my water line run because it was leaking into my driveway, I know that my house was leaking more water into the ground than it was using.
How many people have breads growing into their pipes?
Yeah, anything that's underneath the ground.
Yeah, well, I watch some videos from Australia and New Zealand that people who work on their drainage systems, including stormwater drains.
And with those tropical climates, the amount of roots that they get into their plumbing is outrageous.
They'll pull a root mass out of a four-inch pipe that's 10 feet long, maybe more.
Wow.
Well, everybody's got those decorative trees and shrubs all over their properties.
And they look at the drainage pipes as, gee, I can free water.
Sign me up.
What are you doing tonight, Uncle?
I'm not sure.
I know the wife wants to watch field juice, field juice tonight.
So I'll watch that at some point.
I'll probably come back on the air.
I think we're going to have a board tonight.
Yeah, you doing a watch, friends over or you going down?
Was it last year you went to the cidercade, right?
I'm talking about himself in his cat.
Just me and Bust.
Oh, sorry.
Well, I'm thinking of holding my nose and getting a DVD set of Game of Thrones.
Why are you going to hold your nose?
I'm not that I'm promoting it.
I have no desire to watch it myself.
I mean, it's like 60 bucks on Amazon.
But then again, that's a DVD set, which means that even under Linux, I can play it on any machine I got here.
You got some new board games.
We're going to try it out.
That's what we're doing tonight.
We got lots of food, friends coming over.
It should be fun.
At least we don't have to drive.
Yeah, so I was telling these guys.
I had for Christmas, gotten an orange pie, zero, three, the four gigabyte.
And I was going to set up because it's got the gig ethernet to it to host the audio files.
And I ran it up and I ran it the way I was running it before with just the Python script.
And I was running into the exact same problem where I kept saying it was timing out.
So I just now decided, well, all right, what the fuck?
I'll try to Danny's method of the engine X using the engine X to serve it up.
And you know what?
It works.
Yeah.
Of course.
The simplest way is usually either bad.
The simplest way.
It was just a one line Python script.
You should walk through the entire engine X process on that either on Friday.
We're here.
He already did.
Literally just in sweat from the repos.
And then yeah, go ahead.
It was episode 256.
Was that the arm episode?
The arm episode?
No, that was the manager.
Oh, that was the arm episode.
And you can go look at the YouTube for that one.
Yeah, I just made a quick confau and put it in the show notes and installed engine X from the repos.
And that's it.
Yeah, I don't have to simlink the VAR WW folder to external drive before I keep the stuff.
But to test it out, I'd visibly I had just copied everything over to that directory.
But that's all on the SD card.
So you put it on to an external thumb drive.
I got to attach to it.
But yeah, I mean, yeah, it's about as simple as it gets.
Just the fact that it's something.
Make sure that the other ones work.
Sure, everything up.
So if you can use app yet and you can copy and paste, that's bad.
If you want to proxy it, you can do it.
Why?
What do you think about the orange pie?
Three.
It's nice.
Orange is or cheap.
Raspberry.
Yeah, they are.
What?
What digital are you running on there?
Armbian.
That's fine.
Probably get enough.
You've got enough horsepower on there to run quite a few things at that.
Yeah, I know.
Now, see, now that I've done it this way, I'm wondering whether I can go back.
Go back to the old pine 64 I had and just throw it on there.
Whether it'll work with if I just do the engine X.
And I can use the orange pie for something else.
It should unless you get stuff interfering with it.
But it's pretty basic as a kid.
Like I said, it only uses about the whole container.
You know, which includes the OS is about 50 gigabytes.
I mean, 50 megabytes.
So you got me saying gigabytes.
Yeah.
Now I put them in there and everything is just working.
Yeah, damn it.
So I should have done it your way in the first place.
I know I was going to ask you, honky.
You're on etherpad.
Do you have a like an admin interface?
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't.
I installed it through you know, hosting the etherpad.
Install etherpad through you know, host and then the admin and face is just a blank screen.
What do you type in the URL then slash admin at just a blank screen?
It's the URL then slash ethernet or not ethernet etherpad.
Yeah, because you know, host gives you a sub domain for it and then slash admin.
And yeah, it comes.
It says admin panel on the tab, but there's nothing there.
It's just a blank screen.
It's one of the reasons I'm trying to get away from you know, host little stuff like this.
But yeah, I'm just going to install it in a little doctor container probably.
Or you know, what else I have is that little wise computer that thin client that I haven't used for anything that has Debbie on it.
I think it's just installed natively there.
I don't work in trying to find a use that thing.
Yeah.
I'm using it for net data.
Just connect to my server and collect stats and stuff like that.
But it's got still got for me to use for something else.
Do you need to put it on it?
And some guys on the side of the highway, busy highway mind you.
And he's got a clipboard in a pen like he's trying to take a survey and jump in front of cars and then jump them back on the shoulder.
Doesn't seem like a good thing to do in Dallas area on New Year's Eve.
Yeah, well, that's the only thing about your game party minutes that.
Even walking home on New Year's Eve is not the safest thing.
Once I'm there, I'm not going anywhere.
We got a few games. Have you heard of for minis?
What is it?
It's called harmonies working.
No, it's a lot of fun.
It's kind of a tactical game a little bit where you you set up these tiles and you try to create habitat for your animals.
But like you have mountains and water tiles and field tiles and stuff.
That's a lot of fun.
We just got it.
We've been playing it.
We can play with two people too.
I'm an idiot.
Got another game called the bus there.
He doesn't understand it.
A girlfriend likes it and her roommate and his friend play with us and then we'll have some more people over tonight.
I won't play that because it takes a little bit of concentration.
But we bought we bought this game called Tappel.
It's pretty good.
You ever heard Tappel?
No.
That one's a lot of fun in party games.
You get the alphabet in a circle and you draw a card in the beginning and it's electronic.
The little alphabet centerpiece and you draw a card and then everybody has to guess something that's associated with the category and that card.
Beginning with the letter that's on the little interface.
If you draw movies and you start, you can pick any letter that hasn't been picked yet or you pick A or B or G, gone with the wind.
Then you hit the timer and the next person has so many seconds to pick the next movie that starts with the letter that hasn't been picked yet until you get to the end.
Whoever wins the win gets the card and at the end of the game, whoever has the most cards wins.
Pretty cool.
What are you doing tonight, Joe?
Probably 3D printing stuff.
You mean in celebration for two years, not dang thing?
Is that going to hang out like games with your kids and your wife?
Maybe play games with the wife.
What are your kids doing?
They're calling it these days.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Sounds like Tala's working today and Kai's already at work today.
So Joe Joe would be playing on his switch that he got for Christmas.
Nice.
He's not going to be drinking some more of that cider.
Nope.
Nope.
Not getting any more of that cider for me to drink.
Pretty good cider too.
What do you plan on drinking tonight?
Water.
Maybe some soda.
You don't have any of that peanut butter scotch left?
A peanut butter risky.
You have some left?
I have some left.
I also have some, let's see, salted caramel whiskey.
There you go.
That tastes good.
That sounds good.
What do you mix it with?
That mix.
You drink it straight.
Right?
You just drink it straight.
You drink it straight.
You mix it with ice.
That's right.
I'll show you on Friday.
I got some really good maple flavored crown oil that goes good in front of all.
Sometime.
Well, I used to enjoy honey whiskey.
Look overhead, honey whiskey.
Not fairly popular for a while with the Jack Daniels.
Yeah, I've seen that Jack Daniels honey whiskey.
I think Jim Bean makes some honey bourbon too.
The Jim Bean of vanilla bourbon is really good.
It makes like a vanilla coat.
There you go.
I remember.
I remember as a kid every April vacation we would hike into my dad's cabin.
And occasionally there would be the drinks of something in a liquor bottle.
And my dad was shocked when my brother drank some of it.
Because not only was it probably not the best even when new, but after being spending
who knows how long in that cabinet, it wasn't exactly a top shelf.
Hey, Joe, who makes that salt caramel whiskey?
Look.
All smoky.
Yeah.
No minor honey.
Oh, okay.
All smoky is at the whiskey.
I got you.
I've seen all smoky.
I haven't seen that flavor though.
Salty caramel whiskey.
Whiskey with natural flavors and caramel color added.
Mountain made.
Have you tried it?
Yeah.
There's like much of the bottle left.
Must be good.
Had it for a long time too.
Well, very often.
I mean, you guys are normally watching me when I drink.
So yeah.
Well, that sounds weird.
I would drink.
I would drink more, but my pills wouldn't like it.
How many siblings have, net minor?
I have one sort of.
Is that the same brother that gives you the, maybe the laptop?
Yeah, but he's also the same brother who's waiting for me to pass on
so he can snap up his share of my estate.
He's the truck driver, right?
This has been my mother's golden child.
So, you know, well, my folks were.
My mother was even handed.
She had one son, which she blackfolded, mailed my father into getting,
and she trusted him implicitly.
And the responsible one that was taking care of her, she didn't trust much at all.
How far apart are y'all in age?
Well, two years on the calendar.
Since he jumped out of the household at 18 and I stayed for the duration.
I think I've got a little more mileage on me.
Family-wise.
Never mind.
I never expected to survive my mid-30s living here.
I don't think anyone actually expects to survive their mid-30s.
Well, you know, there was a shit with ever since I stopped going to Maine.
Shit was getting deep here when I was dealing with my parents alone without,
without dealing with my extended family who was very supportive when I was growing up
and probably saved what sanity I have.
You see, it was only when I went to my grandparents' place that I was welcome in their home
and had an actual place.
My folks were quite clear that their name was on the deed,
and we were intruders, inmates, or something,
but we did not have any investment in this house.
Which was...
We had responsibilities, but we didn't have any authority or anything.
You couldn't give that to kids.
That was something that...
I mean, that was something both my parents horded like Scrooge's goal.
So, no matter.
You work it on any pie projects?
No, I need to get my pie fives back up.
And think about whether I want to get another one and hook them together as a client server pair.
I believe if one pie was given just a X to go desktop,
while the other one did the internet work,
you could probably have a fairly powerful video.
I mean, you wouldn't be loading the pie video quite so much.
We're trying.
I mean, the pie fives, even with an integrated desktop, are pretty good.
I'm just saying that if you had one handling the displays and everything,
and the other one handling the actual web browser and internet stuff,
that would be roughly recreating the kind of split that the Unix originally used with the desktop.
So, you're also talking about making the leap into the wild world of the Wi-Fi?
Yeah, I'm thinking about doing wild world of Wi-Fi.
My pfcent rather has three nicks that are undeticated at the moment,
which means I could have up to three different channels, just one per nick.
Now, what I'm going to use for a login to my or hotspot or what have you is.
I'm really not sure.
You don't want to use just Wi-Fi router and then use like a pfcent box with it?
I might use, well, I might use a Wi-Fi router or I might use a dedicated hotspot.
But I really don't know, I mean, the way I'm thinking is that the Wi-Fi channel
that I would be establishing would be isolated from my local network.
It would be allowed to route stuff to the internet,
but would it be allowed to see anything in the local land?
It should be pretty easy to do.
I mean, there are dozens of routers have some newer Wi-Fi routers,
have something set up or you can set up a guest mode.
And that's basically the same idea, right?
Post to.
Yeah.
And that's basically what a guest mode is.
It sets up a whole line of IP addresses that are segregated from the rest of the network.
Yep, built-in V landing where you don't actually have to know what V landing is.
Right.
Well, I haven't, I mean, I've gotten pfSense and set it up in a pretty basic way,
but I haven't really dug into it that way.
And, you know, I just don't know enough about that.
Also, I would probably be interested in finding out a proper VPN provider to provide an extra layer.
Look for one that's verified to not do any logging.
Yeah, but I'm just saying that I know Wi-Fi security itself is a paper tiger.
So I would like to have something when I initialize a connection.
It goes to the VPN, you know, it's tunneled from the get-go.
I'm looking at NordVPN and there's another one whose name slips my mind at the moment.
Yeah.
Yeah, I want to make it so that whatever Wi-Fi provider I hook up to,
the actual data stream is going to go through the VPN.
Yeah, when I get into the world of cell phones, I'd prefer that none of my calls actually go through the cell network.
What service are you going to use?
It will be a rise in phone, but are you going to use like a Google voice account?
I haven't really explored.
I might use Google voice.
It would be nice to have a clean Google account that I can use with better security and not all the junk that I've accumulated over years.
And also have access to Google Drive and other stuff.
So offering like a free 15 gig?
Five now.
Well, I'm going to have to look at that because well, I haven't got that much, but I've got a ton.
I may even have to might be a good idea for me to get something like Thunderbird up just so that I can purge some of my old stuff,
trying to purge stuff through the Google Web interface seems to be a pain.
I might be more effective probably.
Yeah, I've also thought about getting some kind of use net access back since Google has dumped that one.
Well, they've dumped their connection to use net.
However, that just means that the Google groups are full of junk.
All right.
No, this is off topic, but does anyone know what the difference is between a soft and a hard some link?
Well, soft some soft some link is a alias for a file name.
And can bridge file systems.
Hard some link is actually an extra I know, I think.
That is to say, it has a physical location and can thus only be on the same file system.
This is my understanding, which may well be mistaken.
So if you do a similar to a folder that folder basically exists in two different places.
Technically, if you think it's said that one spotted it also show up in the other spot.
Right.
But these the same link.
If it's a soft some link.
That that is that goes over can go over your complete file system.
The hard link is is an actual hardware.
Do a separate I know that points at the same data structures.
I don't know enough about Linux below that level to know.
But the soft one is just producing a sort of a desktop shortcut.
Okay.
So I'm probably going to do a hard like trying to link the.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Trying to interrupt.
Well, that's great.
We don't call that interrupting.
We call that adding content.
Well, so it's actually tech related content, which is an.
Which is, which is even a higher value.
Yeah, so I'm trying to.
It probably means that Friday's show will be a lot less tech and a lot more just smack talk.
It's kind of hard to believe.
So business is usual.
Yeah.
Well, fix up with, you know, even more smack talk.
And don't forget you still got to watch the show the movie.
Oh, I haven't watched it yet.
Oh, God.
Did you watch any more of it?
A few hours ago.
No, I've, I've had to do other things besides trying to watch movie.
I'll see if I can do this.
I don't know.
It's on to be and YouTube.
Yes.
Set up to watch on to be YouTube doing that whole thing where they're blocking you block origin.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know if you blocks updated yet.
They might have.
Actually, what I found on YouTube interesting.
That's I dropped.
Oh, good.
I thought it was me.
I can't.
I can't hear Net anymore.
Oh, I hit mute so I could start typing and then all of a sudden the second I hit mute,
he dropped me.
He dropped off completely.
I'm like, Oh, damn.
What did I do?
You did him, not yourself.
Yeah.
Well, as I was saying, there was a company called PIE who supposedly has a YouTube and Twitch
and blocker.
They're advertising it on YouTube.
And also they have a reward system so that if you watch their ads instead of YouTube's ads,
they will actually give you some kind of magic money in Bitcoin.
I haven't studied where the magic money actually lands.
If it is supposed to be.
A coin of the realm or something that they promise, promise, promise, promise that you can actually
convert to cash.
But since I'm already paying for YouTube premium, I don't have to have an ad blocker on it.
Although I find that I have to re-log into YouTube a ridiculous amount of time.
You've got to verify it to you.
You're not sharing your account.
Where was some noise about Elon Musk buying or buying into YouTube?
But I haven't heard anything recently.
Is he trying to run the government?
Well, heck.
Even four years later, he could come back and exify YouTube without hurting my feeling.
Call it X.
XTube.
You know what?
About a YouTube with less censorship that allows you to use real English language instead of YouTube's.
That would be fascinating.
Well, anyway, I'm just kind of running out of gas.
But yeah, I think I'm going to...
Yeah, and I might order my Game of Thrones DVD set.
One thing that I really like about it is that they have that little person major character.
And he acts just like any classical actor.
I mean, he plays it extremely straight and extremely well.
And unlike so many movies where the little person is strictly a comic relief element.
Like he's a real human being.
Yeah, main character.
And he might as well be 6'6".
Hell, as I've seen occasional chunks of the series.
He outsmarts a lot of the normal people of whatever rank that he's dealing with.
That's what he does.
And he lays it on the freaking line, too.
One of his royal and again, what's amazing about that movie besides the lovely blonde main character
is that so much of it is done in an artificial language.
So that whatever viewing audience they would have to use subtitles or something.
The fact that it's an artificial language basically makes it more universal.
And it might have been if it was just an English and they would have to translate it to other...
Oh, come on.
I mean, if they put it in Klingon, there would be some people that didn't require subtitles.
Somebody probably took a time to learn language.
Well, I have a feeling that if you looked far enough around the internet, you'd probably find primers on the language.
Playing with Sim Lynx, hoping I didn't fuck it up again.
I think I'm okay.
Do I have two of the same name directly though?
Yeah, Lovecraft just posted a link to Dothraki.org.
Welcome to Learn Dothraki and Valerian.
Yep.
It's out there.
You can bone up on it down that minor.
We'll get you fluent in no time.
No more subtitles for you.
I really wouldn't put that kind of effort into it unless I knew that there was a naked blonde that came with it.
You got to learn it. Maybe you'll get your own callisi.
Yeah, well, it reminds me one of the things that I've been doing is editing some of my private stuff.
Oh, I'm not sure that's appropriate here.
Oh, the subject of editing my private stuff is appropriate because it's appropriately technical since I use simple UTF-8 text.
As long as I can talk about editing this stuff as long as I don't say what stuff.
My day, they call it manscaping, but I don't know what you guys are calling them nowadays.
Cutting back the forest.
Oh, no. The forest is at 63 degrees in here.
I use the forest all winter.
Then I get a crew cut in the summertime.
I'm getting a disconnect now.
I mean, the cheapest air condition you can install is a haircut.
Very true.
He gives it the old Hitler stash.
It's the go-t or the Mr. T.
It's got its own mullet and gold chains.
Come on, Minnex.
Some of your closest friends are very fishery.
They're even in your life.
Okay, got to get off here for it.
I'm going to take a nap.
I'll log in later.
You'll have a good New Year's Eve.
Yeah, I'm probably going to have to go get up a Walmart here soon.
Some oatmeal.
Luckily to Danny.
I have to make a time to meet up with him at the micro center.
Eric said in Matrix, he picked a really weird time to log into the stream.
Yeah, we were talking about haircuts.
It's a lot.
How are you going to put this in the show notes, Lovecraft?
Oh, I'm sure I'll get creative.
Man-scaping.
Lots of options.
63-year-old forest.
Old growth forest.
Oh, man.
Danny, you're Danny with a cat.
He's Danny with a fox.
Which one of you is smarter?
Oh, the cat's got it, mate.
This cat is on Butler.
Somebody to feed him.
Getting lots of pets.
Rub his butt.
We got three cats over here.
They're all of their own people that wait on them.
It's crazy.
Yeah, I got two here.
And I swear they run this place.
I have one here.
One here in the evil eye right now.
Even the dog.
Yeah, he's the boss for sure.
Yeah, he started this dinner countdown.
He's got two hours to dinner.
Demanding it early.
No, we had a little gray cat.
And we had a white spits westie cross that was about 50 pounds.
Now, when the gray cat wanted to sleep under my mother's bed, the dog moved.
When the cat wanted to sleep in the dog's bed, the dog moved.
Yes, that dog was a smart dog.
And that cat was just me.
Well, she would also climb up on top of my mother in sleep at night.
But, you know, when you own the house, you can do what you want.
Where's that?
And houses with cats in them are owned by the cats.
They're just run by the people.
I mean, they're managed by the people.
Well, having opposing thumbs.
Yeah, that reminds me of a friend of mine in the World War II veteran from, I think,
about ex-inactive marine from, I think, the Battle of Saipan.
They recreated a little pincer on his left hand because he lost it to a Japanese sword.
And after the war, he was invalidated out of the Marine Corps and was a soldier of fortune
over various, as a light kernel of soldier of fortune, over African, a lot of other nasty places.
Was it a 60 minutes special, 15, 20 years ago, where a guy gave a Japanese soldier his arm back?
He had taken it home as a souvenir.
Say what?
Did he preserve it somehow?
Or was it just a bone?
No, it was just a bone.
Oh, it was just a bone?
Okay, wasn't it tickled and from out of hide?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's on you too.
Episode two, they tried to reattach it.
Oh, it was a Vietnam veteran soldier reunited with arm bones.
So it was a Vietnamese soldier.
Oh.
Here, if I can drop the YouTube link.
Well, if you know the story about Big Enrich's 8th song, 8th of November,
the veteran in that story went back to Vietnam and he dumped his combat boots into a bomb crater
where he'd gotten hurt, closing out that story a little bit.
All right, but you can't say anything else.
At least I accomplished this today.
I got the audio files all set up.
They work and they're assimilated to the...
What is it?
56 or 512 thumb drive.
I have attached to it right now.
512, what?
Thumb drive.
512 thumb drive.
I have attached to the orange pipe.
Okay.
It is 512 of what?
It is of storage space because archive.org stopped taking submissions.
So I needed somewhere to store our audio files.
And so I was storing them locally.
Okay.
512 is...
That's a pretty impressive thumb drive.
It is.
It's really small too.
I have another one.
It's the same type here.
You still got your video on there?
Quite literally that big.
Nice little thumb drive.
Exactly.
I'm thinking about...
So I got two external two terabyte drives.
I might...
What?
I have an external terabyte drive that I'm using with Jellyfin.
I might just basically copy all of those onto one of the twos and then reformat that one terabyte drive.
And maybe I'll stick that on to the orange pipe as for all the data.
And maybe I'll try to pull down all of the archive as to have it.
Let me build you both.
I don't know.
Have the thumb drive in the external drive.
Yeah.
I still have to deal with having central file access.
I haven't really nailed that one yet.
Are all the files available down there from archive.org now?
Yes.
Okay.
So that whole issue with them being up and down and up and down pretty much resolved?
I think so.
And talking with Ken earlier, he was saying he thought that you can upload to archive.org again.
They have something.
So let's talk with them about this situation because they had moved up all of their data to archive.org at one point.
Now what they have is basically what Danny and I were talking about on a show where they had...
They have several places where they have all of the archive data and then they use a ROM Robin.
What do you call it?
A distribution.
But it's the word I am looking for.
Low balancing distribution.
They're using a round robin low bouncing distribute way to distribute the data.
They have like four or five different places that they're hosting at the moment.
It's an interesting idea.
If Danny is down with doing that, I'd be happy to try to set up some sort of low balancing for hours.
But I am happy as hell right now that this seems to be working out with the engine next thing.
I'm still just shocked that a simple python script is that engine X works better than a simple python script.
But it's probably just because that's what engine X is don't pour is distributing HTML like that.
That's cool.
At least there's a solution in place.
Yeah.
It's working.
The hard part about trying to download all of it is let's see.
If you go to archive.org and let me pull up here real quick.
And you do just a regular search for lug cast.
If you what did I do last time?
I sort it by date.
And they published into a sending.
So just the whole naming of things I think was a bit different each time like over the years.
Like this one is labeled as Linux lug cast episode 251.
So it's still the lug cast 251.
But some of the earlier ones were my point being just because of the way it was labeled when it was the audio files were labeled as it was published.
You couldn't do something like do just try to do a W get of all things you know from lug cast.
It's going to take a little bit more.
Yeah, I just took a peek at it now with you.
It looks like there's some underscores and some of the file names and some don't have underscores.
Right.
It can be done. It's just going to be a little bit more of an undertaking.
Or you need to create a.
See if you can create a file of simlinks.
Listen, I've done all this I'm looking at what to do today.
I didn't say today. I'm just saying.
That's that's one of the things that it's simlink seemed to be useful for is creating a canonical expression of files that could be spread anywhere.
True. And that's kind of the way that the audio files are published is basically it's a simlink to the archive that org.
But the whole reason why I want to do a backup of everything is if something happens to archive that work again.
At least we still have all of those files because there's nobody I have.
I don't have any of the originals because it's been.
It's been over 10 years now that this has been going on and I don't have it.
I'm not like running any of the original stuff that I was 10 years ago.
So having it all somewhere isn't a bad idea.
Do you have everything you need downloaded now?
Everything I need downloaded now.
Everything off of archive.org.
No, not everything.
I just have the most of the more recent ones.
Honki, that's an impressive hat.
Yes.
So I spent two dollars.
By the way, welcome back Fred.
Thanks.
Fred's back for an encore performance.
You should put the name of that instrument in in the show notes.
I've got a brother who when the younger was in choir school and had some interesting music.
And I'd love to be able to send them a link about it.
Honki, do you need any help pulling these files down?
I can download them before you can get them to you somewhere if you need some help.
Let me figure out my whole storage situation down here first.
And then actually, if you would mind helping me work on a script to get it all,
that would be cool.
I think the harder part is going to be trying to pull it all because of the different way it's named and stuff other than that.
I mean, I just downloaded like three of them in like a minute and a half or so here.
Oh, yeah.
All right.
Cool.
Yeah.
So I mean, we could brute force it out or whatever.
Just if you need some help, reach out man.
I'll give you a hand.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
Like I said, let me figure out maybe if I get down here tomorrow or tonight,
I'll start working on my whole storage situation now that I got that project fixed.
And I can get a place set up where I can actually move all that data to.
And yeah, we'll figure something out.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
No matter.
You like my son's hat there?
Yeah.
It was a fun one.
That's from Super Mario Odyssey.
Yeah.
I know that was capy.
Okay.
Even though I haven't really played it except in the stores, I still know what it is.
Yeah.
I suddenly like Mario.
Well, I'm actually currently playing my test.
There you go.
How's my test?
Yeah.
I'm just building a house.
Not really doing much, much more than that.
How does it compare to Minecraft?
Well, except that the fact, except the fact that blocks break slower than in Minecraft.
And you walk slower than in Minecraft.
And some of the crafting recipes are different.
It's pretty good.
Cool.
Like, for example, you would normally, in Minecraft, you would need two planks.
A wooden planks for four sticks.
But in my test, you only need one plank.
Well, there you go.
Way more efficient.
For legal reasons, they probably couldn't keep it the same.
Couldn't be too close.
Yeah, but there are enough mods that make it pretty much the same.
Oh, yeah.
All right.
I'm going to step away for a minute now.
Since all my family just made it home.
Yeah.
Have fun.
Thank you.
See you later.
Well, I think I'm back.
How is everyone?
Oh.
For good.
For good.
Hey, Josh.
Hey, Joe.
Going on.
Oh, not much.
We're just celebrating the new dark ages.
Oh, that that's what you got 20 days left.
Yeah.
I got some new stickers from George, though.
Cool.
Get a few tech plus coffee stickers on my laptop.
How's with your family, Joe?
I'm good.
I got a job.
What?
My middle child got a job.
Oh, OK.
I thought you said you finally got a job.
I mean, what?
You've been wanting a better job for some time.
Yeah.
My tone would have been entirely different if I had gotten a new job.
Ah.
So your middle child got a new job.
What's what's what are they doing?
Just working at a Chinese restaurant.
Well, he won't starve.
She.
She.
Yes.
One of the lovely mislittles, I guess, are talls.
Oh, Joe is just rolling in children, you know?
Yeah.
Reads a lot.
Well, considering neither my brother, I, or a reproductive bent
for historical reasons, somebody's got to pick up the slack.
Yeah.
Thankfully no more for me.
Yeah.
One of my friends on Macedon asked what my new year's revolutions were.
And he said, nope, that's not a typo.
I said, well, at my age, the best I can hope for is to be revolting.
I mean, why not just start a revolution and when the one is retired eventually?
Hey, the only way I can start a revolution is turning around in my chair.
Yeah, yep, that's about, that's about my energy level.
But then again, I'm a country boy hiding out in the wilds of liberal Massachusetts.
Oh, there are still wilds in liberal Massachusetts.
Well, that's one reason why I'm not wearing my, why I'm not running a camera.
So they don't find you right?
Well, as long as I'm here, there's something wild in Massachusetts.
Even stuck in the suburbs of Boston.
Well, I thought about using Jitsy, but I don't think anyone needs to see my face.
I've got one of those faces that's great for radio.
Because you never see this.
Well, there's, yeah, there's a guy on YouTube who says, yeah, he's got,
he's got a face for radio and a voice for print.
And he still does video podcasting, but, but he, he's one of these.
He has the better bachelor podcast and some other stuff.
But I've actually got an HPR show written.
I just haven't recorded it yet.
Nice.
That would be my third not counting my interview.
And the way, way, way back when in April of 2019,
when we started Distra Hopper's Digest, the first episode was carried on HPR,
but that was on Tony Duzes' handle, not mine.
I mean, yeah, for me, it's the same thing.
Depending on how you count, I have, I have, I have been featured in four episodes,
but only three of them were under my handle.
Because the first one was the first one by Father Falky interview.
Well, like I said, my first one was literally in April of 2019.
But at the time, I was part of the Mintcast team as I still am.
And at the time, Mintcast was using the HPR mumble room for all their recordings.
So when I finally submitted a podcast, Ken Ballant thought I was an old timer.
Oh, wow.
Come on.
There are two hours left.
The people are already shooting stuff into the air.
Okay, it's been, it's been going on for the last like six hours.
Or something more or less.
Well, I wish some of them what they were shooting in the air was billionaires.
Yes.
We played that game earlier this year with some CEO.
Oh, he wasn't a billionaire though.
We need to start at the top, get Elon, get Jeff.
Oh, yeah, Falky just came in and said, last three days, last six hours.
Yeah, that is true.
It was the last three days.
It reminds me of Fourth of July around the Boston area.
People, people start with the fireworks about July 1st at a conservative estimate.
And then they run, run through at least the first weekend.
Well, as I said, I got a card today from George Joshua with a bunch of stickers in it.
This is the third mailing I've gotten from George Joshua.
The first one was Tony Hughes had given him a Pi3B to give to me.
It was cheaper to send it back with George than to mail it.
And the second one was actually a Lenovo tablet, which turned out to not be very good.
So I sent it to another friend.
Stickers are good.
Stickers sure are great.
And these are little stickers you can put them all over the place.
Well, I'm going to have to learn the wilds of the Android universe, at least somewhat,
because my brother is sending me what he says is a free phone, which is why I'm going to be working on seeing about setting up Wi-Fi and securing it.
What phone?
It's a low to medium grade Verizon telephone.
Like the Galaxy A15.
My brother has not mentioned the actual name if he knows it.
Okay.
Watch it's an iPhone.
Oh, it's not an iPhone because that would be a premium.
The question I have is if I actually make cell calls on this phone, will my brother send me a letter bomb and return post?
He says it's a free phone and it's unlimited service and everything.
But I don't trust him to read the fine print, especially when it's Verizon fine print.
All you have to do is get your proton VPN and use the Android app and disable all the Facebook apps and WhatsApp apps.
Be Google Fight.
Well, you don't have to go that far.
If you get a good enough phone that you can put some version of AOS P on it instead of Android, that's cool.
But it's probably going to be a Samsung and those things are locked down.
Yeah, I'm going to have to see what I get.
And I've got a Chromebook here that somebody sent me some time ago and I'll have to see if I can get that up.
Although I may have to replace the OS with with Thorium.
Some Chromebooks can handle regular Linux.
The newer ones can.
Depends on how locked down they are.
If you can put Linux on it, try Bowdie. It'll run like fire on that.
As I said, I haven't taken this out of the box, so I don't know.
But also, I will point you as another optimized Chromium browser called Thorium.
And they also have a Chrome OS replacement called Thorium OS.
And it has showed me on the Raspberry Pi's that it is quite optimized.
I have also seen BlisOS out there, which I actually tried since that is my last name.
But it wasn't ready for prime time when I tried it.
It might have gotten better since then.
Yes, and then there's our friend React OS.
Oh, good old React OS.
The Windows version.
Yeah, the version of Windows which runs on a Linux kernel.
And, well, what is that?
Oh, Stalman OS that is still.
Ah, yes.
Still pre out, still pre out for 30 years later.
You can get that on Debian.
How does it run on Debian?
Is it a VM or what?
No, Debian actually has a GNU herd version.
It's the only non-Linux kernel that they work with.
It is not fully functional, but that's only because the herd kernel is not yet fully functional.
I should talk, I'm running a PineTab 2 with a specially made for the PineTab kernel.
And then someone took the kernel which was originally made for Arch and plugged it into Debian.
And I'm running that.
It's actually running it with TDE Mobile.
Plasma Mobile.
I'd rather have it with full Plasma.
It does have enough memory for that, but I can't seem to find the right switches to do that.
Well, I've heard KDE is a new beast.
A leaner, meaner fighting machine these days compared to what KDE for you.
Well, KDE 4 was a shit show for sure.
The 5 got itself righted and by about 5.1 or 5.2 they actually had done some really good memory configurations.
But the more stuff you have open, it's still a memory hog.
Yeah, you can have a Plasma with nothing running and have it at 580 megabytes.
But soon you open something else, something up, especially something like Firefox with all the tabs that so many people tend to run.
It gets heavy real fast.
Yeah, I've got an I5 that I may bulk up to something like 24 gigs.
Just to see what the extra space gives the I5.
Yeah, I'm running a, well, allows an I7, Joe fixed it for me.
Thank you, Joe.
I7 was 16 gigs a ram.
I've got a triple booting to Mint.
The Debian version of Bowdie, which is still in beta 3, but it works.
And KDE Plasma just to get some variety.
Well, I'm using MX virtually everything.
I have one machine because I can't quite get a secure boot stripped off of it.
Totally, I have to use some Ubuntu, but that machine is now out of service for because it's a gaming laptop.
And I'm trying to conserve power.
Moss, you still doing distro hoppers?
I quit distro hoppers sometime April or May.
Okay.
I wasn't doing it any good.
I really wasn't.
I got to the point that if it wasn't Debian based and didn't have a desktop that I liked, I wouldn't review it.
And I just wasn't doing any good.
I got you.
I did turn it over to Dale Miracle and Eric Adams, but Eric has had some illness problems and Dale obviously is on the road four out of five weeks.
And so they haven't been able to get together for too many episodes.
I think they've got one in the can.
They haven't been able to get edited.
I am sorry to have left it in that shape, but I left it in good hands.
Just I didn't know that Eric's health would be that bad.
Hey, at least they're still doing it and at least you did what you did.
I mean, yeah, I did five years.
Yeah.
Over 50 episodes.
I think I did 51 episodes.
We tended to do 10 a year.
We were supposedly monthly, but with Dale working four out of five weeks.
Once we added him to the show, we were doing it no more than every five weeks.
And that cuts down on your number of months.
I'm still doing well, having a problem with full circle weekly news.
I'm still doing it, but Eric, the unready has had health problems and got fired from his job and had to move and hasn't checked back in in three or four weeks.
I did get a news file directly from from Ronnie talker.
And I just produced an episode that should be out the next day or two.
Ronnie usually releases them on Sundays, but he didn't get it to me till Saturday.
So I'm still doing what I'm doing.
I'm on a hiatus, but only for a couple months at Mintcast.
My head is just so twisted up right now.
I can't even breathe right.
I'm sorry to hear that Ronnie Tucker reminds me of a country band, I think.
That's interesting since he's a Scott living in Netherlands.
Well, in America, a Scott from the Netherlands could set up a country band probably in Georgia or Tennessee or Kentucky or something.
I mean, you know, that's where we, you know, that's why so many of our miners over here were Cornishman cousin Jack.
Well, in 2024, I sold exactly $26 of my music.
Hey, that's something that's true.
It's something is sort of like how significant the earth is in this in the shape of the universe.
Yeah, the airplane gets high enough those ants get off all tiny.
I still teach him.
I am.
I have worked maybe 12 days this semester.
Not much.
They don't call me that often and sometimes it's my fault.
I sometimes like I take one day off and I take it off of my off my availability schedule and forget to put it back on at the end of the week.
Oh, but yeah, I'm still in substitute teacher at the local high school.
I better not say which local high school or you'll track me down.
No autographs, please.
Buy my music and I don't think about it.
There you go.
Put, put your link to the music in the show.
Now it's the least.
I'm trying to spread the word as much as you can.
Well, it should be on my on my host page.
Although I'm hoping to move it because my music has been at band camp for all this time and band camp got sold to a venture capitalist and they're trying to just suck more money out of it.
So it'd be better to move to there.
There's a new federated thing that's similar to band camp.
I'm thinking of moving my stuff to.
Now that's my I put it in the text and in the room.
That's not the same as putting in the show notes.
Over here.
So Joy went out to wait until April and May to move up to number four on the hosting list.
Oh, you'll still be here.
We'll still be here.
I'll never get ahead of you and no one's going to get out of rob.
I forgot who's in second.
Maybe I'll catch up.
You think you're going to be on that long?
I have no clue.
We seem to have been petering out of light.
Yeah, well, taking the occasional break isn't terrible and.
With I know you said you jump on, but you needed a break and.
I didn't mind taking a little bit of time off.
Do we need like new hosts again?
I think it's possible.
Majid keeps having things to do or relatives to get sick.
Same with Bill, but Bill still, you know, taking care of basically everything else.
Yeah, Bill is taking care of everything else every time.
I asked one of you for a program.
He's got it before you can even answer.
But got that one show that you would ask for.
But I was only working on season three.
And then you said you started over at season one.
Well, season three and season four.
Yeah.
Well, let's see.
There it was a.
And season five of the best one.
I thought of a show the other day that I was going to ask you for.
It's not a very new one.
But it's out of my head now.
I just remember that was that I had one.
You guys have another hard time coming up with topics for week to week.
Or is it just the.
But also, you know, getting everybody on with Eric's health issues.
Bill, you know, having a family.
Me and Moss kind of being a bit burnt out.
Awesome.
More than me.
It's a.
I come free burned.
Sometimes mint cast is my lifeline.
Other times it's the one too many things on my stack.
It's one of those places where I actually, you know,
get the talk with people with similar interests.
I mostly talk smack on that other podcast.
Well, that one.
It's mostly Joel, you know, talking about his weight loss in a CPAP machine.
Still.
Well, he's lost a crap ton of weight, man.
You can't do anything but be proud of him on that.
Sure.
But, um, you know, Joel, you tried it.
Well, yeah, you know, Dan.
Dan still talks a lot about tech and occasionally Joel will too.
But Joel has his interesting topics.
And he just, and if you try to move away from his topic,
he will comment something on your topic real quick.
And somehow manage to twist it back to whatever he was talking about.
Well, I can understand that to a point because I get very one trackie.
And once you get me on a topic, it's hard to get me off of it for a while.
But we haven't had a problem on mint cast because I don't know anything.
So I don't get on a topic.
You know enough.
You know how to do a boot, but well, you know, triple quadruple,
whatever boot more than probably anybody else I've ever heard.
Well, I used to, I've cut way back.
I think my two main computers, I triple boot and everything else a single boot.
You introduced me to Ventoy.
Ventoy is fantastic.
Yeah, I actually was introduced to that from my Indian friends.
They were, I don't remember what group I was in.
It was a telegram group.
It might have just been the group I was in about.
The stuff that Rudra Sarasphot was working on.
Everyone kept saying Ventoy this and Ventoy that and I finally checked it out.
I think we did a report on Ventoy about two months before Chris Fisher found out about it.
We being mint cast.
Right.
That's a hell of a tool.
But again, I don't think I've ever known anybody to have as many distros running on one machine at a time as I've heard you running.
What is, what is the maximum number you had running on one machine at a time?
I had one machine at 12 and I was going to take it to 20.
And in the process of setting it up to move it from 12 to 20, I decided that was too much and I cut back to eight.
12, but it can't be done now because so many distros have moved away from grab.
All right.
And if you've got something that's running.
Sysv in it and you got something else that's running.
System D boot and something else that's running a different version of grub or something that has to have.
One of those wonderful windows things in the background and you just can't do it anymore.
These days, if it isn't Ubuntu based and even then you run into problems, you can't do it.
Ubuntu or Debian.
Hat Debian sets, what's the name of it?
When you install a Debian distro, the default is to not look for other distros.
You have to go in and reset that switch.
Okay.
And you say you don't know what you're talking about.
Well, obviously I couldn't think of any of the names of things I was talking about.
That's all right.
Specific names don't matter.
At least that's what I constantly tell myself.
Because I can't remember half the names of things.
Also, Libre boots, some people were picking that up.
Yeah, I've actually been looking at some net boot stuff.
But that's completely separate.
I have a question.
When you were running the eight distros, 12 distros, whatever, were you sharing a slash home?
Or did you want to have their own separate?
Okay.
Basically, what I do is I give each distro from 10 to 20 gigs.
That's usually all that the system needs, usually less than that.
And then I have 128 gigabyte jump drive that I use for storing all my personal files.
Thanks.
If you're curious about that, that's a SP.
Come on, what's the name?
I've got drives sitting right here with the logo on it.
And I still can't remember.
Silicon power jump drive.
I also have some Silicon power SSDs, which is what I just pulled a look at.
They're not the best, but they're a lot cheaper than the best.
And they're a lot better than the cheap ones.
And I always appreciate that there's somebody else out there who really likes the Maksha desktop as much as I do.
Well, Maksha and Enlightenment.
Maksha is better than Enlightenment.
It really is.
It has moved away from Enlightenment to a point.
It started out as a fork of E17.
As it moved along, they started drawing in the better new features of later Enlightenment.
And now it's actually added features that Enlightenment doesn't have.
So I got to go back in.
I got to try it.
That's one of the exact names right there.
Point that out.
Point that out.
Those are desktops.
Those are desktops.
That's not programs.
Plus the fact I'm technically on the Bowdie team.
So I shouldn't remember what's on Bowdie.
Are you really?
That's awesome.
Technically.
I joined up to do some work on the documentation.
And I haven't done a single drop of work.
But they like having me around.
So let me go ahead and claim being on the team.
Yeah, I've.
I used Bowdie back when.
Like when he wasn't here.
It first came out.
And then.
I've been like off and on on it for a while.
I've mostly stuck with a lot of Manjaro stuff right now.
But I want to go back to.
The Bowdie.
He said that they have a beta of a devian.
Oh, yeah.
It's called deputy.
Nice.
Is it still a divisional guy?
Yeah.
Oh, no.
No, Jeff Houghlin left the team about five years ago.
Okay.
I know he left.
My thought he came back for some reason.
No, maybe I missed it.
Actually, he's been a little bit of a roadblock at times for us.
I mean, there are some products and whatnot that are being sold under the Bowdie name.
And the money never gets back to us.
Oh.
No, the currently dev is Robert Wiley who is at YLEE for most reasons.
The guy working most on Mocha is a guy named Stefan who is in Czechia.
If I remember right.
And then we've got hippie tap who is running the themes and whatnot.
And he's I think he's in UK.
And those are the people who are actually doing work.
And Robert Wiley has been having health problems.
So we haven't been getting as much work done on the ISO as possible.
Since Robert's the only one that does the ISO.
So right now we have Bowdie seven official, which is 2204 Ubuntu base.
We've got Deb Bowdie in beta three for version two.
In beta three for version seven, which is also 64 bit as based on Debbie and 12.
And we've got Bowdie legacy.
I think we're in seven beta one or beta two.
The last official version of legacy, which is 32 bit is Bowdie five.
But we do have betas on Bowdie six and Bowdie seven for 32 bit computers.
And we're going to be in trouble because Debbie is dropping 32 bit in the near future.
But there's so damn few people using it.
I should also point out that Bowdie is the basis of a squalus Linux,
which is a major education Linux used in Mexico and parts of Central America.
That's awesome.
There are several hundred thousand copies of it being used in schools.
Now when Bowdie first came out, they were trying to put together like their own app store type of a thing.
And it was that initially came in with the what was the leaf browser was the main one that it used?
Have it moved away from a lot of that stuff?
Or are they still kind of still working on some of that?
Well, they want to be using Firefox now, but Ubuntu made it really hard to do specific versions of Firefox if you're using Ubuntu base.
And right now we're using Chromium as the main browser, but are basically our app store is on the web.
And you get to it, most easily on Chromium browser.
Okay.
I only use Chromium for that in one or two other things like stuff that will not let me run Firefox.
But yeah, their app store was never developed into an app.
It was just a web browser based app, I guess.
I really love Bowdie 7.
I run Bowdie 7 on my laptop.
I run Deb Bowdie 7 beta 3 on my desktop.
Now, do you know if Moxia is available in other repos?
We have documentation on how to add Moxia to another distro.
I only know a few people who tried it, but it's all you build it yourself.
Okay.
So it's basically pulling from like a get repository.
Yeah.
Bowdie itself has two get repositories, one for current and the other for in progress.
The in progress is Bowdie Dev.
Okay.
I strongly recommend using Deb Bowdie 7 beta 3.
It works great.
I don't have any problems with it except again.
If you're going to multi boot, you have to find how to set that tab.
I think it was Londoner that told me how to get that set right so that it would see that I had other systems on my machine.
It also, Deb Bowdie does not seem to want to run.
It will run Grub Customizer that won't display the results.
It won't actually put the results of Grub Customizer into the right Grub file to be read.
So that's a little bit of a pain for me.
Yeah.
I haven't even asked Londoner how to fix that.
I should get around to that.
Problem with Grub Customizer these days is you have to know which version of Ubuntu or Debbie and you're running because there's different repos for it now.
The original repo doesn't run on anything later than 2204 or 2004.
Someone else came out with one to run on 2404.
Ugh.
Well.
Ugh.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onstoast.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
Onstoast status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
