Episode: 4159
Title: HPR4159: HPR New Years Eve Show 2023 - 24 ep 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4159/hpr4159.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:38:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4159 for Thursday 11 July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, H.P.R. New Years Eve Show 2023-24-03.
It is hosted by Han Kimagoo and is about 109 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the H.P.R. community comes together to converse.
So, H.P.R. doing the all day event for New Years this year?
This is it.
It's nice.
I promise I promise you can show this year.
I promise you can show this year.
So, it's we're here.
Actually.
I promise this year, early this year.
I finally figured out what I'm going to do.
I figured it's taking me years.
I finally figured out what I'm doing.
Well, I think this is my third, but it could be my fourth.
I don't know where H.P.R.
myself.
Actually, I'm not.
I'm going to do a podcast, but one of the ones I started back in April of 2019,
H.P.R. did the courtesy of re-broadcasting it as a sample episode.
And that's the only time I've actually been on H.P.R.
other than these shows.
No, I was, I was thinking,
we're all into it.
Then I was like,
I want to try something different.
I was going to do something on amateur radio.
And I know there's been a couple of shows on amateur radio before.
So, I saw.
I want to do something different, something that hasn't been covered.
So, I'm steering away from the tech and I'm going DE razor-shaving.
Like, school razors with safety blades.
Yeah.
Little history, cost analysis, stuff like that.
Just a short show to intro myself to it.
I've got a few of them.
You can still find the really good Gillettes with the dials and everything on eBay for pretty good price.
I got my first one a couple of years ago.
It's a 6D3 Gillette.
I lost you.
Oh, you lost it from here.
I can stay here a month.
I heard you say I got my first one and then you cut off.
Well, I'm on two-thed phones.
It could have, it could have walked out.
No, I got my first two.
It's a 6D3 Gillette Slim.
That's the one with the dial on it.
Yeah.
Adjustable one through nine.
Yeah.
From a company down in the States called Razer and Furium.
They often revamp them, clean them, whatever.
They'll replaint the metal on them and get them.
When I got was still in the box.
It was an old news talk.
And yeah, I never went back and this is about two years I'm shaving with these there now.
And I will go back buying like mock trees and stuff like this to expensive.
Well, it is, but I tend to slash myself all the hell with those.
I don't know.
I'm doing something wrong.
Or maybe I'm doing it all right and then all of a sudden I do something wrong.
And that costs me in blood, you know.
I still have them.
I still keep trying every now and again.
I think these five blade razors are ridiculous, especially like me.
I've got a fairly substantial beard and you five blade razor.
How much is not going to get cut?
Yeah.
The heads are a certain size, you know.
I, you know, I have them.
I'd love to use them.
Hell, I'd love to be able to use a straight razor, but I'm not that skilled.
Probably.
Probably not the best thing in the hands of an autistic person.
Straight razors are fun.
I got a couple of them too, but I do my face.
And my head, and I don't want to take straight my head.
I'm not that.
Yeah.
Yeah, I only do a front half of my head.
I do not have male pattern baldness.
I do however have a hairline that's so receiving that there may not be one anymore.
I hear you.
I got that.
I got what we call the crown.
So yeah, the male pattern.
Yeah, I got that one.
Well, I don't.
I just, uh, it just gets so thin up front that I say what the hell and shave it anyhow.
But the rest of my hair is pretty full.
Joking vouch for it.
He's seen me weekly.
You're trying to say you're hairy.
Oh, damn.
Hairy ain't the half of it.
And, and the double whammy I have is that I have high blood pressure.
And the only blood pressure med they found that will control my blood pressure is minoxidil.
But it won't fix that bald spot.
Just make your arms area.
I'm not like I'm not hairy enough already.
And then they give me Rogaine to take for blood pressure.
I was shocked about, uh, eight years ago when I did my one professionally recorded CD.
And the guy was also a photographer and took a picture from my, uh, CD cover.
And I swear the light hit the fur on my arms such that made me look like an ape.
Is that thick?
It's just not that dark.
I hadn't even noticed how thick it was.
I saw that photo and I really reacted negatively to that photo.
I'm guessing the both of you are down in the States.
Fortunately, my wife loves my fuzzy.
Uh, there have been times that's the only thing keeping us together.
Things are getting better.
They really are.
They just started off so horrible.
She came down from Canada and announced she was going to marry me.
And, uh, so we had six months to make it happen without any getting to know each other.
Uh, or she'd be sent back to Canada.
So you took one of ours then, eh?
Well, she, she said she has a little bit on the A side.
But I actually passed the Canadian citizen chip test better than she does.
No doubt.
I do have relatives in Canada.
I've been sort of, uh, I actually visited them when I was a kid up in Calgary.
I've also, I lived, uh, I was exiled to Detroit for about four and a half years.
And the only good thing about Detroit is I could go across the river to Windsor,
which at that time was magical ferry land until they built the casino.
It went down a couple steps when they built the casino,
but it still is nowhere as dismal is Detroit.
She property the one Detroit.
Well, in those days, I didn't have to have a passport to go to Canada.
Yeah.
So I might be making a trip, uh, again, February or beginning of March.
I may go down to drive down to Florida.
Hmm.
I feel sorry for you.
Don't, don't open your mouth.
They have, uh, restrictions on free speech down there.
Really?
Sort of.
Sort of.
Teachers are quitting in droves because they can't even keep books in the classroom.
Yeah.
Florida is a strange place right now.
It is definitely a place where you want to watch what you say.
Or dissentists will bring the hammer down on you.
That's surprising to me.
I always thought Florida, because you always hear about the crazy Florida guy or whatever.
I always thought that was more of one of your free places.
You're cutting out a lot, two toes.
He's really not too old with anything else.
No, no, I didn't hear anything else.
I heard him just fine.
I guess they don't have real internet up in Canada, huh?
Actually, my service provider buys their service from, uh, what's the big American one?
I forget.
Yeah, one of the big American ones.
There are three big American ones.
There's Verizon.
There's AT&T and there's T-Mobile.
Oh, I'm not sure.
I know, I have a, it's called Helix here, but it's a technology that was bought from, uh,
one of them in the state.
I'm not sure which one.
Okay.
Well, I'm on Ting, which is actually based in Toronto, but Canadians can't get it.
That makes sense.
The per candidate.
That makes sense.
Well, they buy, they buy lines from the major carriers and the Canadian carriers won't sell them any.
I think they've even split up a bit.
They got into bed with, uh, Dish Network and, uh, Dish is now running their T-Mobile side and their AT&T side.
And they're still running their own Verizon side.
So we're still on Verizon.
So when I call, I get tech support in English by English speaking people because they're in Toronto.
You call them the others.
You wind up talking to someone in the Philippines or Malaysia or something.
Yeah.
Call, call tech support in my province.
Now you get to French people.
Uh, yeah.
My wife's like a becker.
Yeah.
Actually, she was born in Shefferville, which I bet you don't know where it is.
Shefferville, no.
I've never heard of that one.
It's actually a mining community on the border of, uh, Labrador.
Okay.
And the, the mine itself is in Labrador, but the town is in Quebec.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, that's pretty far from me.
I'm, uh, I'm, I'm right at what we call the border of the Ottawa River.
So I'm pretty close to the capital.
Only into on the Quebec side.
Yeah.
Well, we looked at me moving there.
And there were great advantages, except I had shit loads of stuff to move.
And she had almost nothing.
And so she gave in and decided, decided she'd rather be warm than free.
Yeah.
Actually, this year where she just had her first knee surgery on the American healthcare system.
Lucky her.
It's probably better than ours.
Our healthcare system is terrible.
Yes, but it's free.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, yeah, it was, uh, I, I've gone to the emergency and waited 16 hours, 24 hours.
Yeah.
You get stitches because of a gushing hand.
And, yeah, I know it's, it's not great.
Well, if she were still in Canada, she would have had the knee surgery five years ago.
And wouldn't have paid a penny for it.
Yeah.
I can imagine having private insurance is the way to go if you're, you're, yourself, the border from here.
Well, the way south of the border is you must have insurance.
It's mandated by law.
And if not, you pay a penalty to the IRS.
And it's not cheap and it's not good.
When you get really old, then you get the free government, uh, Medicare, uh, which still has some holes in it.
But you can usually shore that up if you're willing to let some private companies take money from the federal government.
To shore that up for you.
Yeah, yeah.
Whatever happened to your, uh, uh, bomb, I guess it was.
Did they cancel that one or is it still a thing here?
The, uh, the, the national health insurance back on is you can go to any doctor, any hospital.
When you farm out your, uh, Medicare to a, uh, extra service provider, uh, they control what network you're in and where you can go and what you can do.
But, uh, mostly you're, uh, a lot more of your fees are paid.
Interesting.
Yeah, my wife's not quite old enough for Medicare, but I've been on it due to disability for a long time and then graduated into retirement as I got older.
Big difference between disability and social security, uh, disability, you can't make X amount of money or they start taking money away from you.
Social security, you can make all the money you want and you still get that social security check.
Really?
Here, I think there's a limb.
I, I'm not on social security or anything, but I think there's like a limit of $200 a month on social security here before they start taking money away.
Yeah, it's the same amount of money they give you.
It's just got fewer hooks on it.
Yeah.
And again, you dropped out on that one, two toes.
I'm just going to hit mute for a second gentlemen.
I'll be monitoring.
I'm just going to pull on the vape a few times and I don't want to kill everyone.
Yeah.
Oh, looks like Scotland's having a little connection issues too.
Well, I'm going to wander away since we're having such a sensitive conversation.
All right.
I'll be back.
I'll be around my, I hear my wife in the kitchen.
I figured I'd better check up on her.
Uh, I'm working on configuring crap.
I'll be here.
I'm working on a Miller highlight.
Right.
Enjoy with flavor you, Vippy.
Oh, um, I make my own.
So this is mango kiwi.
Nice.
Nice.
Yeah, here in my province here, they're not even allowed to sell pre-mixed flavored ones.
So yeah, I know that's what I do, too.
I buy just like a 20 milligrams salt and a base.
And then I mix my own flavors to it.
Yeah, I use the salt Nick.
I'm still going through.
I bought a veer almost.
No, no, half liter.
It was a half liter of 100 milligrams.
And I mixed that down with vegetable glycerin and usually capella flavorings.
So it works out.
Yeah.
Better super to them buying it by the like 60 mil bottle to 30 mil bottle.
Oh, yeah.
Well, yeah.
But this last time I ordered from the company that I normally ordered from, but they didn't have the capella mango.
So I ended up getting their candy mango.
And so I made a batch that was absolutely invapable.
Oh, no.
That cost me almost a hundred dollars.
And then I made another batch that I'm vaping right now.
That's actually really good.
And then I also made some nicotine free kiwi flavored just kiwi flavored because I'm trying to cut back a little bit.
I don't want to like follow and quit like I did last time.
But yeah, it's fun.
Yeah, I quit smoking cigarettes for two years.
And I just hit eight.
And then I had a, I was at a party one night.
Too many wobbly pops and I started smoking.
So I just jumped back on the vape and last about two months ago there.
Trying to figure out where this is saving this.
What path is this on when you gather your updating a server?
I read completely reinstalled.
And so I did a backup and I did a restore on several things.
But not everything came back.
So it is my job line is set up to use my next cloud.
But my next cloud isn't set up.
So I just reset up next cloud and granted the permissions back and set the white list backup.
But it's pointing to the wrong folder location.
So now I'm not an expert on next cloud.
So I'm trying to either re-point it or move everything to the correct location.
How y'all doing?
Well, I ain't dead yet.
Good. This is pirate.
Yes, indeed.
Hey, pirate.
It has been about a year.
Yeah.
My chance boss lady needs me for a bit.
I'll be I'll still be in the room.
I just mute note for a bit.
Yeah, I'm playing around with whisper AI speech to text.
I'll hook it up into my home automation.
Sounds fun.
Recently got home assistance set up and I've started integrating it into things.
I'm the type of person who build my own hardware and write my own code and all that for the integrations.
So I quite frankly don't trust like the commercially available light bulbs.
Here go.
All right, so come over here.
Yes, seven minutes late, but we should say happy New Year's to Pakistan.
Happy New Year's Pakistan for snap.
Next cloud.
What are you doing with next cloud?
I'm trying to restore.
I had this running before, but I reinstalled my server and now it doesn't see any of my data.
Well, that's not a good thing.
Next cloud comment.
Next cloud.
Is the data there on disk?
Yeah, I have back it.
It should be under the slash data in your next cloud directory.
As I recall.
I'm running the snap.
So it's a little bit different.
Yeah, I installed on bare hardware bare metal under free BSD.
Yeah, well, setting up an entire lab stack kind of, you know, feels too much like work.
So I'll just run the snap.
That's fair.
I, uh, went and set up a bunch of Ansible playbooks to take care of all that for me.
All right.
Well said.
Reload.
Biles.
And that did not bring them in.
So annoying.
I'm in the right account.
Yes.
I actually don't really know how snaps work.
I am on arched flat pack is kind of the preferred thing here.
And like all my servers, I run either free BSD or Fedora and free BSD.
I just run stuff in bare metal and the Fedora is a pod man host.
Well, it's going to try me nuts.
Okay.
So add it to next cloud comment.
Well, I'm back having fun.
It sounds like, uh, just having less than fun at the moment.
I love the stuff.
Well, you have to understand Joe has different ideas of fun than most normal people.
I mean, okay, uh, where is it?
No, it's not those two.
I was thinking my connection with the PR was the fact that they carried the first episode of digital hoppers.
And I forgot when, uh, when we took over Mintcast, Mintcast was using the HPR mumble room.
So well, it's been a while.
How about a decade ago?
I used to get on tilts every once in a while.
Well, you should get back on.
We're sure that people Joel just keeps running his mouth.
When, when is it, Joe?
Joe, oh, it's Wednesday evenings.
It's always Wednesday.
Yeah.
Well, I'm not sure which, you got two podcasts so I get confused which ones Wednesday evenings.
Uh, well, tilts is on Wednesday evenings.
Oh, okay.
Logcast is on Friday.
Uh, Wednesday evenings at, uh, seven, 30, my time, seven, 30, my time.
Wonder, no, I'm bored.
The Snap have, uh, an option to just mount, uh, an external, uh, director or something.
Um, yes, actually, if you install the desktop version, you can.
And it's, mine is currently syncing.
And once that's done, I will reconnect the job one.
And make sure that all works.
But it's got 10 gigs of stuff to go through.
So that'll be like 10 or 15 minutes.
Seven, 30, my time, Moss.
Yeah, I can hear you, but I didn't hear you respond to my questions.
I said it like multiple times.
Can you hear me?
Yes.
I can hear you.
Hello.
Can you hear me?
Am I not working?
Yes.
I can hear you.
Oh, okay.
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
Yes.
I can hear you.
Can everybody hear me?
Yes, indeed.
At this time.
Awesome.
I was like, I didn't know.
No, uh, you seem pretty clear to me.
So I don't know.
Okay.
Must be Moss.
Must be.
I'm playing Moss.
Granted, that's one of my more favorite hobbies.
Yeah.
Well, at least you're not saying it's my fault.
You're just blaming me.
Right.
Exactly.
So yeah, I also, I also redid my garage last night,
because I couldn't sleep.
Okay.
I lost you, Joe.
Okay.
I heard you say I also ripped.
So I also redid my garage.
Like I went crazy, redoing my garage last night.
Oh.
Can you hear me now, Moss?
I'll take that as a distinct maybe.
Ah, I just heard the end of that.
Yeah, I could hear you the entire time.
That's weird.
Yeah.
I don't know what to say.
Exfinity.
Yeah.
But yeah.
So since I was redoing my computer,
I pulled everything out of my working area of my garage,
where this is all set up.
And it completely just cleaned everything,
reset it up and in a slightly new configuration.
And I have not finished like cleaning up the rest of everything else yet.
So lots and lots of work still to do.
Oh, yeah.
And kind of making me twitch.
Yeah, that's the nice thing about living in the department,
is they don't have a garage to clean up.
Yeah.
Ah, yeah.
But, you know, I've got three kids.
Apartment living isn't all that easy when you got here.
Okay, I lost you again, Joe.
Yeah, I'm going to be real.
Okay, now you cut out partway through.
Oh, and now I hear you again.
Yeah, that's pretty lucky.
I have a pretty huge apartment for how much I'm paying,
at least for Seattle.
Yeah.
Oh, just about any price is a good price in Seattle.
Ah, it's one of the most expensive cities in the world.
Yep.
And the fun thing is about 20% of the apartments are empty
and are held off the market just to drive up the prices.
Yep.
It's happening all over the US, really,
and it's a bit of a problem.
Did I get dropped?
I got dropped.
You got dropped.
What a mumble was just having a grand time today, isn't it?
For you, at least.
Well, I just saw Honky Magoo disconnect and reconnect.
Oh.
So, yeah.
Well, this server has never exactly been the most stable.
Ah.
We never had a problem.
I remember when we were on the old HPR mumble.
We did.
We did.
When we first started, if you remember,
everybody switched hot muting,
but they didn't switch to the,
they had it.
We all had it continuous activity.
Yeah.
And that caused some pretty bad audio.
Barley problems.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this is basically the same thing except it's just
because there's so many people connected.
Do you have this problem on?
Tilts?
Ah.
No, and it's on this server,
but there's a lot less people connected too.
Yeah, it's true.
Well, I never know whether to blame my system or
Xfinity or the server or what.
Ah.
DiBlame Moss.
I didn't do nothing and I couldn't fix it if I knew.
I got no fingers on no buttons.
Oh, I finally got the power supply pulled for the Kudu.
So I'll be shipping that along as soon as I find
a decent box for it.
Awesome.
And it's the hinge that's broken.
Yeah.
It's the right hinge and the bezel.
And the bezel.
Okay.
Oh, that type of plastic work is always fun.
Yeah, especially on a machine made by
the third or fourth largest computer maker in Taiwan.
Yeah.
Well, usually that means parts are readily available.
Oh, really?
I can't, I even have trouble finding out which model
cleave of it is.
That was sarcasm.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Did not hear the sarcasm font.
Sorry.
Ah, my bad.
I'll make it bolder next time.
My, uh, newest quote unquote computer.
Well, the newest part is the part in quotes.
But yeah, it's a netbook from 2009 or something.
It came with XB.
It's got a single, single core 32-bit atom.
And uh, finding a modern OS to uh,
that'll run on it was difficult.
Uh, net BSD.
But you would probably run it.
But well, the point was not running, you know,
a modern like desktop environment or anything.
But uh, I wanted a cheap shitty computer to turn into a list machine.
Uh, and so.
Okay, I'm cutting it out.
Yeah.
Everyone's cutting it out.
Anyhow, you can find cheap refurb machines on eBay all the time.
I'm sure eBay.ca is as good as eBay.com.
Or Facebook marketplace.
I paid like $15 shipped for this phone.
So, you know, the price is right.
Uh, uh, uh, I'm running an uh, uh,
a 2016 model think center M700 tiny,
which is about as big as the old external DVD drives.
And not even that big.
But it's got an i5 in it.
And I had one with my seven and it kind of crashed on me.
I still don't know why, but you can.
I got mine for under $100 with no OS.
What do you write?
2016 is the oldest model we have in operation.
I, uh, oh, that's a couple of, uh,
I have a couple old at old HP think, uh,
thing clients that I use for various things.
If you, uh, watch eBay, you can get one for the same price as a Raspberry Pi,
but it's got upgradable memory and storage and it's in a case.
So it's like a Raspberry Pi, but better.
Yeah.
I've heard a lot of people say good things about, um,
some of the Chromebooks being able to switch them to Linux
and do interesting things on them,
or use them like Raspberry Pi's.
I like it.
I got a lot in the light there because I actually have a T540P,
which is a 2014 model.
I gave a talk at a well,
uh, 10 years or so ago when, uh,
the ARM Chromebooks are still pretty new and, uh,
demonstrated, uh,
oh, that cut cut out quite a bit on the pirate.
Oh, cut out on me.
I heard I demonstrated.
I heard right up to and, uh,
rip.
I guess we have to do this once a year to remember why we're not using mumble anymore, right, Joe?
Yeah.
I know we were talking about switching back to mumble,
but yeah, on our own servers,
which on our own supposedly built and wouldn't give anyone the address to.
Well, that's because we decided after we built it to not use it.
I didn't hear that part.
So because, um,
Eric wants to be able to see,
and it's kind of pointless to use mumble and jitsy,
so we might as well just switch to jitsy.
Have we done that yet?
Um, we're supposed to be doing that on the next show.
Uh, incidentally my wife and I listen to our birthday show,
and we really don't like the music.
Is the new music?
Don't tell Bill.
Okay, okay.
Uh, I'll be sure to tell Bill.
Truly sucks.
It's truly sucks.
You're just not a fan of the middle.
I'm not a fan of whatever that was.
He called it Electronica.
That it was an Electronica in my book.
Electronica is more keyboard based.
Okay.
Well, I thought it was pretty good.
And his kid did make it.
I know, but I'm old, you know.
We're aware.
You know, I saw this old dude in a wheelchair rolling down the sidewalk
the other day just blasting gangster rap.
He's a good dude.
It looks like he was 90 and just in this power wheelchair.
No, no kidding.
No kidding.
For bad taste.
I am an old Vogue.
I'm an old Vogue.
There's a difference.
This fat boy's town is gangster rap,
because I know they were.
They were what?
1980s.
The first trip to Electronica.
The fat boys.
The fat boys.
Oh, I'm not familiar with them.
Look them up.
They actually get their own movie.
They were pretty popular there for a while.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I knew he was good or anything.
Not that rap is even music or anything.
I would disagree with that one.
I would disagree with that one too.
I mean, house is crap, but it's still music.
I like house sometimes.
Oh, fuck house.
Oh, excuse my language.
You know, I just downloaded 188 gigabytes of side trans
off the internet archive.
Oh, you must really hate yourself.
That's programming music, you know?
I mean, trap is gross enough.
If it makes you feel any better,
sometimes I listen to bluegrass too.
Oh, well.
Moss likes bluegrass.
I'm allergic to what I do.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Midway through sentence.
I could hear you again.
What's your opinion on bluegrass?
I'm not big on bluegrass,
but at least it's a similar genre
to what I normally do.
Right.
At least it's not house.
Yes.
I really do have an electronic guitar now,
but it just sounds like an acoustic.
Yeah.
I think your guitar is pretty cool.
I think my guitar is pretty cool.
I wish I could have afforded the next generation
because it's got an extra switch box
and looping and everything built in.
But this one's pretty cool.
Oh, there goes money.
All right.
Let me go check on my dog.
Yeah.
I wish this server had another PCA slot
so I could put a GPU into it.
And when I got it,
the idea was it was lower power.
So it wouldn't use quite so much electricity
and also cost less to buy.
But now I'm regretting that a little bit.
Yeah, I've got a monster workstation.
I've been trying to talk so many to buying off me.
But, you know, this thing has like six-rate slots,
has ducting and cable control,
like you've never seen.
It's an HP Z800.
Has two quad core Xeon processors from 2010.
It's a heavy mother.
Even if I could get what I wanted for it,
it cost me a hundred bucks to ship it.
Yeah.
It's simultaneously not enough horsepower
and too much, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I say, dual quad cores,
but they're like 45 nanometer.
Yeah.
When you turn the thing on, your lights dim.
Not quite.
It's only got a 1,250 watts of power supply.
Yeah.
This server I'm complaining about has eight cores
and like probably draw half the power.
Yeah.
This is eight core, but single threaded.
But there's Xeon's.
They're like 4.2 gigahertz chips.
They're running like crazy.
It'll run Windows 10.
It'll run any Linux.
I just didn't like my power bill.
That's why I got the M700 tiny.
There's a difference between 1,250 watts and 35 watts.
Let's go a lot.
Didn't hear that pirate.
I said my rack, which has about five servers in it,
in total draws about a kilowatt.
Yeah.
Probably we get this off me if only for the historical value of it.
I mean, it's a perfectly good computer
and boy, they designed that heck out of it.
Unfortunately, I guess add too much horsepower
and not enough horsepower at the same time.
Yeah.
I actually have the original video card
that came on it was a Chinese knockoff of Nvidia.
And then I later got another card, which was Nvidia.
And I also got an AMD.
I think I've lost the original knockoff,
but I still have the other two video cards in it.
But there are a little bities.
You have to run really old drivers.
It could probably handle a big one.
I just don't know what you'd want to do with it.
Server in terms of our draw is going to be the NAS.
It's full of spinning rust.
It's 32 terabytes after raid.
I traded a NAS box that I had inherited for the Kudu 3
and 2012 model Gallagopro 2.
Per system 76 machines I ever had so far the last.
Although I understand that now a system 76 is making
all their own machines as of this year.
I have this one I have now.
I got in 2020 16 core CPU 64 gigs of RAM.
Nvidia Quadro 3000 or whatever was.
It's pretty tricked out.
It's a brick beast of a machine.
Yeah.
Kind of laptop where the battery exists
so you can move it from one bloke to the other.
Oh, you ain't like my MSI.
Pretty happy with my T580.
That battery lasts the good six to eight hours
at the T540p 2 maybe 3.
Well, I got this thing I broke up.
Two one terabyte spinning disks
and then the one terabyte m.2 and a 17 inch screen.
So yeah, the battery doesn't last for a long.
Yeah, this thing's got just m.2 driers
but that's two of them.
Yeah, 17 inch screen.
When I got it I was still thinking that I'd go back to
working out of coffee shops and the like.
But with COVID and all I haven't done that.
So I still work from home.
It's still nice to have it all packaged together.
Steam sale.
Why would you want to buy steam?
You can just make your own on the stove.
But that one slide.
I am most assuredly letting that one slide.
Oh, well, I can't want to make.
If I want to make steam, I just,
well, actually I can't just go down the light,
the boiler on the ship.
But you know,
that's that's a lot of work on a steam ship for, you know.
Just put a kettle on, you know.
I do kind of want to see how well
borderlands plays on here though.
I think I'm going to hop off.
It was nice talking to y'all.
I might get back on in a bit.
Alrighty.
I'll be here all week.
Well, not quite.
You'll be somewhere all week.
I sure will.
So.
Okay.
I think that's already built.
That looks rebuilt.
That looks rebuilt.
I'm going to remark all the things I've watched.
And probably fix a whole lot of matches.
Yep.
I got to redo all the movie matches that I did manually.
And it's like I got to do the same thing in audio bookshelf.
Yay.
Oh, that's going to suck, dude.
Yeah, I understand.
That's like hours and hours of.
Oh, it's worth.
Don't worry about our bookmarks.
I actually keep a text text file on my phone to tell me where we left off.
I'm probably going to have to reset up your account.
Oh, that's a problem.
Yeah, but I haven't been using it in a while because I had all the accounts just getting
newt on there with an update.
We just used it a couple nights ago.
Oh, did you?
Yeah.
Like I said, we're only watching suits and the practice.
But we are watching.
Oh, I was talking about audio bookshelf.
Oh, no, we haven't used audio bookshelf at all.
You should still be attached to myplex because that all gets stored on theplex servers.
So now that I've reset up all my pointers and everything, the only issue will be
if there was a mismatch.
Yeah.
So you should be fine with that.
Okay.
All right.
So I got this graphics card from Bill and I want to test it out.
So plus, usually run this on Windows.
Windows.
Is that run on a C64 or what?
Probably.
I don't know.
What's the C64?
One of them newfangled contraptions or something.
I know, right?
Why would I run it?
I am amazed at how much ongoing stuff is in the Amiga project.
There's people are still writing new stuff for Amiga.
I mean, this is looking good.
Let's see how it plays.
Hey, Joey, are you running all this on a VM or in a cloud in a VM or on a physical box?
Physical box?
Nice.
I have to say, this graphics card is kind of awesome.
Oh, no, I just have to wait for this other part to come in the mail and then I'll be back to dual screening.
Ooh, ooh.
Nice.
I had my big monitor burn out the other day.
So I've been there before Christmas.
I was working off a laptop screen for two weeks.
It was not fun.
My old graphics card had one display port and one HDMI.
The one that got sent to me has four display ports.
And I only have one display port adapter.
So I had to order another one.
Yeah, my thinks that our tiny has three display ports on it.
Don't know where they got room for them.
I got like mini display port adapters all around and a USB-C to HDMI, but no full-size display port adapters.
Other than the one that you know I'm currently using.
I need one more.
I always need more Joe.
Actually, I'll probably end up ordering like two more.
So if I want to, I can use all four ports.
I mean, it seems like it'd be a cheaper idea than switching out on my monitors to use display port.
Right?
I mean, just come back, but it sounds like we're talking about HDMI cables and things like this.
And yeah, I've got a mini, I bought a mini micro HDMI cable, so it's a normal one.
For a projector, hopefully.
And then my tester projector, something else is a projector, until a week.
Of course, it doesn't work on my laptop for some reason.
And I got the test to go on in the fall.
Or maybe by a different adapter or cable for another project.
And it's actually in the room.
I'm doing a speech coming up.
It's just safe to say.
It's safe to say, isn't it?
When you get anything, when you get some cable, it doesn't work.
It's a laptop or whatever it is.
Yep.
It gets annoying.
You're having all these adapters around.
Yeah.
I'm thinking maybe I need to buy another cable or adapter or whatever, but I need to make sure I've got my side presentation work.
Ideally, we'll do the next system as well, because the speech I'm doing is about.
Well, it's actually about as long as it's done.
It's actually a few minutes.
I'm going to make it funny as well, because people say that the slide speech is boring.
Well, yeah.
Unless you make it funny somehow.
I've got some ideas.
As long as it's not another meeting that could have been an email.
That's it.
It's a public speaking group.
I can pretty much do what I want.
I can tend to be a teacher in a class and I can have ideas.
Give a dissertation on the benefits of audio books.
The benefits of audio books are mostly felt by Amazon.
Well, there are other companies.
There's audio drama companies that do actually really good jobs.
And they will dramatize audio books.
And yeah, not through Amazon.
To convert this to USB or not.
Do you need training and conversion therapy for that, Joe?
Well, I hate double A batteries.
I hate double A batteries.
So this takes three double A batteries, which is.
So three, four, four and a half.
Yeah, 4.2 volts.
And so five volt adapter will work just fine for it.
So I could easily convert this to use like a light bulb battery if I wanted to.
And a USB charger or just have it hooked up straight to a USB adapter.
And no batteries whatsoever.
What device are we talking about?
Oh, it's just some LED lights.
I think I'm starting to erode my wife's resistance to buying that Pine Tab 2 off of Jackie.
Pine Tab 2, I've got one.
Pine Tab 2.
You say Jackie, and I think my wife.
No, Jackie.
One of our listeners, Jackie Moore.
There is what it is.
I think there might be, well, there might be one or two bugs actually.
But I haven't really had internet connected.
Plus the software is always improving for the Pine Tab.
So it's a generally reinstalled.
He's offering to sell me the tablet with keyboard and also the debug module.
It is?
175.
It's one of our listeners.
They're on one of our shows.
Well, it's actually fun, is it?
Yeah, it's hardly used though.
I'd say that one, why not?
They are quite nice.
I couldn't get the first Pine Tab because unfortunately it sold out.
It was sold out and everyone didn't have any money to buy it.
I wanted one and it sold out in four hours.
Well, now they've gotten that in risk 5.
Yeah, yeah, that's the one.
So I don't have the risk 5.
I've got the arm one.
Pine Tab TV.
Do you have the option of, yeah, risk 5 as well?
500W.
It's very nice.
Yeah, so I was quite impressed with it.
I mean, I've got a remit RS Ultra book.
Now that was a crowdfunding thing and it doesn't really do those anymore.
And it had a remix minis as well.
Other ones, other ones.
I've got two though.
It's not connected to you.
It normally doesn't even have that.
But again, that was like one of those.
Well, that was a bit too heavy that one.
The remix Ultra book has the idea of a tablet, a keyboard.
You can connect where a magnet is at right now.
Pine Tab, two on the other hand, is very, seem very kind of thought out.
It's like the magnetic key, sort of connectable keyboards.
Yeah.
And then when I opened up first time, I thought, wow, this is really good.
Plus, it's quite light as well.
And then it's actually the case.
That's also the case.
So you can take all of that off.
And it can be used as a protected, some extent, as well.
The tablet.
It drops as anything.
But you have yachts that are taking that off.
And just having a tablet as well.
Or having it on.
Or having it on.
And it's like a PC or laptop, more so.
They seem very thought out.
And then the operating system will get out.
I don't know if they might still be selling them because they.
We're going to possibly sell that a bit longer.
I'm not sure.
But I'd say go get one.
Why not?
It's not that expensive.
It either.
And they are actually quite good for what they are.
What else are you saying?
I've seen your operating system as well.
What's the need to only be saying that something else?
Start to stick with what?
King Queen's gold.
Yeah.
There's other.
I love ones as well.
We can put on.
Actually one.
Yeah.
I'd probably put Debbie on it.
Debbie and 12 was gotten so good.
Well, they would say.
Well, they're probably talking about arm one here because the risk
five.
That's very new.
That suddenly they got a device that also has that, which is the other version of the
pun tab.
But for the arm version, there's.
There's a few side to be a few of these operating systems now.
The next base.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Debbie and baseball and there's other ones.
What the hell?
I could run Amiga.
I saw it.
Gee.
Can you?
Maybe.
Well, a lot of Amigas these days are pie four hundreds.
They have actually.
Actually, there's this one guy that.
That little mega stuff works.
Was it?
One guy built a cray one replica with and powered it with a.
Single Raspberry Pi four and he said that was like 20 times more powerful than the original
cray one.
Can you imagine how far we've come if we can replace a cray one with a.
Pi four?
Oh.
Where is my foot pedal under your foot?
It's not.
Well, why not?
It should be, but it's not.
Well, make it so.
I have to find it and then it will be under my foot.
What's the point of making a foot pedal for your.
USB switcher if you can't find the thing.
So apparently a mumble works in my car.
I'm going to stay muted because I got to do some driving.
But this is fun.
I'm not sure how well the recording is this time.
Because I know that hold on.
I don't see actually anybody recording right now.
Oh, wait.
Yes, I do.
Sebastian's recording.
I got 10 pounds.
Oh, it dropped off.
Oh, it dropped off.
But it came back on.
Okay.
Instead of recording again.
I'm recording it more for myself because what happens is obviously it doesn't come.
Well, it came out pretty much two days after on the actual street down the side.
But now it seems that they've come out more like August or something like that.
Oh, how come did you hear that?
I don't know.
We're complaining about your timing.
I listened to some of it from last year, two days yesterday or the day before.
I was like, oh yeah.
But I look back at that.
It's like August or something.
Yeah.
Well, they've got to edit the white space and do the show notes.
They had good show notes with links and things.
Yeah.
Harkey does the audio editing.
It's just it's taken some time to get around to it because you know life.
Yeah.
One thing we knew that's a little bit annoying though is that if you want to suddenly like order something.
I mean, I mean, well, shots going out possibly or the library.
But obviously things close a bit earlier.
It's like, it's like, is it a clothing like 10 here that is in the latest places I think?
Nothing's helping to do.
They don't know it's here in England, but they closed earlier because it's nearly these.
Like 10 o'clock will be the last lot I think.
Tip of the bars.
Well, they close it.
Yeah, some takeaways.
And there's small low comedians type shop.
Who's called in green stores, I suppose.
Many of the big supermarkets do that.
That's close.
But they'll be closed anyway because we've got this city where it's a Sunday.
They have to go at four o'clock in the afternoon on Sunday.
I think they just scrapped that really.
But they, I don't know if you have that over there, but we have to close our big shops at four o'clock on Sunday.
But it's a scrap way that people will be screaming about the war on Christianity all over again.
Well, yeah, I think it wasn't me to do it that originally, sure.
But the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the kind of got away around at the big supermarket.
It's anyway, but here because they have their, like, local, the fresh shops and local shops that are smaller in places.
So, you know, so they can still have those open.
And then sometimes even slightly smaller shops that are kind of kind of as being supermarkets, but aren't really.
But even they have to be closed.
So I mean, you think like really that this, I could go through those shops here near me.
And they, they close like, like, like if they're a proper supermarket, but they're not.
And, and, and people have less was online and stuff.
And well, that's actually the high street here in England.
Like the main shop, the main high street, like the main road and a town, let's say.
Or, or sit, oh, yeah, town, maybe a city.
Or there might be a few in the city, maybe.
But they mean sort of shopping area and so on in a general place.
They, they, they're struggling more now with having certain shops open.
Or even pubs occasionally have to close down, which is a bit surprising.
I've even asked you if that's the pandemic too.
And then, and then there's all this talk about how do we change our shopping centre areas?
Or that all the jokers, they'll just knock it down if it's in the city and put student flats.
Because we're lacking student flats here and there too, really.
It's a bit of a mess, really.
And they want people out and about in, in, in, like, shopping places like the high street.
But it's all kind of isn't great, really.
And then all these hour times retail parts and things as well, yeah.
And it went quite again.
Yeah, it did.
You're still here.
I'm still here. Are you still here?
For me, yeah.
Well, then I guess we're still here.
I think people will disappear something and you're like, oh, okay.
Yeah, they still, have they gone on a round?
I'm definitely a lot less round than I was.
Round, yeah.
Maybe say a round, but, yeah.
Oh, okay.
Do you mean if you're being late, some people in there, yeah.
I'm in shape, rounds of shape, isn't it?
Why is a pantagon?
Yeah, I can't remember myself, but I know an hexagon as well.
They're shapes.
Why am I having trouble staying awake here?
I haven't been awake for three hours yet.
Haven't been awake for three hours, so you said?
I've probably said it backwards, but that's okay.
Well, I haven't been awake for three hours and I'm already sleepy.
Well, what time are you in there in California?
I'm not in California.
EDT-5.
Yeah, like that.
It sits 15-10 right now.
Oh, it's 8-10 here.
PM.
Yeah, 2010.
Yeah, 2010, as in the 24-hour clock, or 2011, actually.
Ah, I guess it did.
Not this way.
Not this way.
Not this way, but, yeah.
I think we just missed a new year, actually, if anyone was doing that.
But, well, Russia is going to be in the new year, so I think that's the next one, actually.
Russia.
Or most of Russia.
Well, if there was nobody here, we can't tell them Happy New Year, so.
Well, no.
Well, yeah.
We only get, I think it's just mostly people from America, Canada, maybe a Canadian, some
of them are coming on over there.
And you're up and it's about it, really, for this, isn't it?
I mean, khaki isn't Hong Kong, but he was there earlier.
It'll be possibly back there, but he's Swedish, really, so.
It's not, yeah.
So it's not like we've got somebody properly from Hong Kong, if he comes on either.
And I think there might be an Australian, I think not even some Australian in the past, I think, these one or two.
Is that a Joe I see?
There is a Joe, but it's the American Joe, yeah.
As opposed to the, which other Joe?
Well, I can confirm the old wall.
It's still open.
More still open?
Yep.
Or a Walmart, sorry.
Oh, Walmart.
All right.
So you do have, I was just saying this.
Just to hear me say that was what, like, in England, what's the open and the clothes and going to clothes very soon.
So whatever's left open now.
Yeah, I was listening to you.
I was in my car.
I had everything on mute.
So the heaters and stuff didn't get annoying.
Yeah.
I think it should be really, or a bit.
I mean, it's not easy to use it, but it's not quite the same.
And yeah, if you call it a car, that's called those places that are still open.
That's probably quite reasonable, right?
It gives people less to hours.
And Walmart.
So yeah, they can call you can be a new problem.
And let's people go in for the last minute alcohol or something as well.
Not alcohol.
I blew up my last pair of goodness.
Why is I need a pair for tonight?
I'm going to mute that music of lanes got to be fairly easy.
You're a Walmart man, yeah?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I see.
Well, I think we'll see right here.
Yeah, massive, free gallon.
I don't know why you'd want one on New Year's Eve's illness, but I can get a nice massive free gallon tub of ice cream.
And more might expect some of that free gallon.
Yeah, massive.
Really, they're already up big.
That's what the size of ice cream tub we get over here.
Super sized massive ice cream tub.
What's the version you got your big plans for the New Year?
If you mean the actual New Year's Eve or whatever, they're not really now.
But if you mean things that might happen in the New Year, then,
yeah, some plans, I suppose, kind of.
You've talked on the past about how you're part of a public speaking group or club, right?
Yes, I did.
Do you have any big public speaking things planned?
Oh, yeah.
I've got to do a speech with slides next.
Well, no, I skipped it so far because I don't have to do everything in order anyway.
But the best level for everyone.
So I don't want to skip too much and have to go back on something.
I mean, this new speech system is a bit silly, really, because it's two.
I did an old 10 speech book.
I did a lot of other people.
But now they've got like, they've got a band spangles in the past.
And now this new system is like content leadership book that they used to have.
There's some of that.
Some of it's just two business specialists.
It's like, I want to speak about, do, do, and do.
And then it's like, where does that fit into the actual speech program?
Some of that.
And I think other people are finding this as well.
That certain speeches don't quite fit in properly.
It tells you to do silly things like maybe later on, do a blog.
Or maybe a podcast, even.
And they're a speech bell.
It's like, I don't want to do a speech about a blog.
I don't want to speech about a podcast.
But now it's mostly business focused as well.
It's an American thing anyway.
Haven't, haven't, haven't, probably haven't thought out very well.
Some people gave up because all the advanced manuals were spied and amateuring as well.
And they quit.
But there's global thing.
That's the biggest toast.
Biggest thing with public speaking in the world.
And 144 countries, at least.
They are doing, I'm doing, I'm supposed to be doing a speech about only seven minutes.
But they're going to have use slides as well.
And I'm going to do one about how you install an operating system easily onto your PC,
onto your usual desktop PC.
It's going to be about installing a bundle.
And I'm going to try and make this speech funny by peeking the right ideas.
Like, pretend they're a class or something, the college burnt down.
Or that there's the IT being put on fire.
I'm thinking of jokes or things I could possibly say in this as well.
Because the amount of people that go, oh, it's a slide, no, it's a slide speech.
Share boring sort of thing.
Classicals now have to do it on a Linux system, ideally.
Because, yeah.
And I will use the broadcast.
I don't want, I don't use PowerPoint anyway.
And I don't tend to use a projector either.
I've done a speech with a projector before in the past.
But seeing what's that discussion and the date for two of them even in the group about basically what's better to use PowerPoint,
Google Drive, or maybe something else and things like that.
It's just like, I'm not really interested.
But I will stick to my, I don't need PowerPoint.
Now, have you recorded in the HPRs?
Radioed.
Have you recorded in the episodes for HPR?
I haven't done any episodes.
I mean, I've come on the New Year's Fein here and there.
That's two, I think.
But I've been nagged by chemicals in the past.
Oh, you should do a show, an actual show.
And I was like, no, maybe, maybe.
So yeah, Matt, I got to meet Ken this year and his son in person.
Because they were in Brussels and froze them again.
So that was nice.
I think I met Ken at one of my other events in the past as well, actually.
I'm not a programmer.
I said this years ago.
I said, I'm not a hacker.
And I think that they blinked me something or someone did and it was like, yes you are.
I said, no, I'm not really a programmer.
Yes, I can code HTML if I was going to make a website or CSS or something like that.
But I'm not really a coder.
I know about programming a bit of red books.
But I do use them up, obviously, and open source.
I've been into that for a long time now.
Have you ever actually listened to an HPR episode?
You said of some, not many.
I did actually listen to one or two other day.
Like two days ago.
So we had some guy making friends.
That was one that popped my look to the archive.
Like, hmm, what's one here that might be your interest?
And there was another one that I can't want to listen to.
Now, I didn't use to listen to podcast years ago.
But there were, you know, a few going for the Lux and stuff.
But the thing is, I usually prefer listening to music anyway.
It's like the same with TV.
I've got TV channels.
I've got TV things I'm paying for, even.
But I'm not really watching enough.
I should, you know, I should watch more movies and TV shows.
But on the other hand, I've kind of got off TV a bit anyway.
I like listening to music.
And I end up playing a lot of the same music again.
And then, sometimes you get newer music that you don't know.
But I just, yeah, I like music.
I don't play any instruments, though, myself.
But on that one, it makes things particularly well.
I like metal and rock music and a bit of other things as well.
Pendle mood moves a little bit.
So the whole thing of HBR is just things that would be interesting to hackers.
There have actually been in the past people who talk about cooking.
I'm sure if you just wanted to ramble on about music for a little while,
that might be of interest to hackers as well.
But even if you just wanted to sit down and record one,
how you got into it.
It doesn't have to be tacky.
It could be something else, even.
But now, I'm quite into tech.
I just, because I said I'm not a programmer,
doesn't mean I'm not into tech.
The amount of collection of devices I've got now going back to last 10 years.
Also, it's about 2013, I think.
The amount of it's something else for me this earlier.
I mean, let it sort of pose and stuff.
You've got one.
I was like, yeah, quite a few actually.
Going back to some mini PCs and some pine,
pine stuff more recently and things like that.
You could do just several talks about the many different things.
Just give a review of one of the many different types of Linux-based phones.
Or didn't you have a, you had one that ran a bunch, didn't you?
You had one of the bunch of phones.
Yeah, I've got, well, I've got, yeah, I've got the BQ,
you've got the MX-4, those are, oh, see, those are a bit old down, not sold anymore.
So, now, there's a company called Roller, the LLA,
which...
Yes, Roller.
Roller, have you had Roller?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they were crowd-funded, I think, originally,
and they launched some phone.
But now, I think it's established.
And, hello, well, system, the German company, right?
I think, without looking, I said this earlier,
I should maybe look at the CFS website,
or they're still selling phones, actually, but I think they are.
And it's now established as a, hello, well, system, the German company.
And you can buy a furtish human, they're still selling them,
like I said, in a check now.
You can buy a phone with either BOLO OS, preinstalled,
which is based on Android, one of those privacy, respecting Android,
the edited versions, whatever it is, you know, one of those.
Or you can have a bunty touch preinstalled,
the human is still selling these phones.
And I got one that was like a normal phone,
called the Roller OS, and a more robust phone.
It really is for the other one, called a bunty touch.
And I try to get one of the original Roller OS phones on from some...
Well, no, there was an upgrade.
There was like the original one, and then the 2022 one,
and the more robust phone.
I try to get one of the original phones bought in from elsewhere,
but he doesn't really want to sell it to send it to the UK.
So I've got to refund it.
But yeah, the Roller phones.
I remember a nice poll a few years ago.
It says something like, just because we're Linux users,
doesn't mean that we don't like shiny things,
I mean devices, so that's what it's all about.
And it showed some of the devices at the time in the photo,
I think, on their own image as well.
And I think that's very true, just because we don't...
I mean, we're not Mac users,
where we want, you know, shiny disks and that and bling,
and we're going to have the latest iPad or something.
But it's nice to have some Linux tech,
actually, for please support with Linux tech,
made for Linux at times.
And it could be laptops as well.
Somebody mentioned that I've got a lot of Star Labs myself right now.
Somebody mentioned it on here earlier.
They have one as well.
Oh, oh, that's interesting.
Well, they're Linux-based hub,
where they pre-installed Linux in the UK,
in England, in Surrey, in some farm or something.
I've had... Yeah, I've got one, Dad.
I've got another Linux laptop, isn't it?
But Cloudy imported, I went wrong,
and my friends can help you fix now.
These are the parts out there somewhere.
But there's some very good devices.
I think there should be more...
I think there should be more,
some more Linux devices, ideally.
I think it's a shame that Chronicle had...
Well, say it now.
You'd be poor through a very good job at a button you touch,
and keeping that whole thing going,
and getting on different phones.
There is a bit of shame that Chronicle had to drop
to your button you touch project,
because it wasn't making any money, quite frankly,
in shareholders and then you make money.
But I think there should be more Linux-y-type things.
Dad, do you have a pine phone?
Yeah, yeah, of course I've got a pine phone.
The one phone I don't have.
And a part of me is like,
oh, I might want to buy this at some stage.
But what friendy talks me out of every time,
if I mention it to him, of course.
And that's the...
I mean, it's getting old now, as well, to be fair.
I don't have that, but it's so expensive.
And I think it's getting old now.
It's still expensive.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, you've seen this as well.
Yeah.
And then with Customs and VAT and anything else on top of that,
it would be like, whoa, over a thousand pounds for that.
Yeah.
And then...
And then...
And then for those that don't trust your original version
on top of that, for double the price,
because original versions got some Chinese components in it, yeah.
So, for double the price,
they were selling a made in USA version, basically.
Oh, the components made in America, I think,
why wasn't it something like that?
Yeah, the purism is way, way, way too expensive for my taste.
So, with the pine form, what if...
What operating systems do you install on the pine form?
To be honest, I haven't done that much with the two pine frames I've got,
because I've got...
I've got a...
Yes, I mean, I should do really.
She gets me my SSD card.
I'll do something with that, really.
Because I've got the pine frame brave hardware,
you have to put an operating system on it in any way,
and I knew that all along I got that.
And I've got a...
No, actually, I do have one.
I was thinking, I must have got the other one,
because there's one with an OS.
Yeah, I think I've got a thing I've got the other one.
And I've got...
Yeah, there's a Manjaro and pre-installed for some reason.
And I've got the pine tab, too, as well.
That's right.
And, yeah, they're all right devices, what they are.
But you can do more than just run the pre-installed OS.
You can put...
There's the other operating systems that work, as well.
Some work better than others, because they're bugging, obviously.
But, yeah.
I've got a little bit more than that, as well,
than the moment anyway, because I've been...
We can't hear you, sir.
Hey, yeah, sorry about that.
If my car is too noisy, I'm just starting to drive again.
Let me know how I'll pull over and mute my phone.
Yeah, that's all I can hear you.
Yeah, yeah, you're smilting here.
I'm connected to my car.
We're a little bit out.
Talking to the other guy.
We're a little bit out.
Anyways, I'll be doing my speeches and things.
The echoing feature.
I hear an echo.
Oh, that might be me.
Hold on, I'll pull over.
It might be me.
It might be me.
Hold on, if we don't put our hands up, I might get echoed.
But, yeah.
Any other questions?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Oh, I'm still here.
Oh, nice.
Oh, nice.
Really good.
It's Joe!
Hey, Hockey.
You sound right away.
My dog's there.
What happened?
She's old.
Your dog is old?
Yeah.
She's just really, really old.
As if problems doesn't want to eat.
And she's busy dying.
Oh, shit, I'm sorry.
What's coming?
Thank you.
Yes.
Well, I've been now.
Had we had three dogs and the little nil had to be putt down in the end.
This was a shame.
Oh, that's bad.
She is.
As bad as she is, if the shelter was open, I would take her to have her putt down right now.
But they're not open.
And I'm not my dad.
Who would have shot the dog by now?
Yeah.
Well, it's just what we, while saying as well as a little bit out of the line up, so I've been sort of well known anyway, because I've been doing a lot of this.
Like we were talking about public speaking groups and stuff.
To try to get speeches done.
I've got a role trying to get new members into one, one of my two clubs even in the committee.
You know, I've got things to do there.
But then it, and then, and then I was getting through this.
Well, so far, where do you spend the beach?
And we get stuck again now.
I'm going to have to really think, what am I going to do next after this next speech?
Because I look at the speech program and it's like, I don't know now.
But I've also, they're like a practice speech in Brussels this year.
So what if I fold them, also stuck around late longer?
So I go, is it clubs near the European Commission?
And I've done that before.
And I do it this winter as well.
Because there's do all over the world.
And it's nice to go and do something elsewhere.
And I was like, hey, do you want to do a speech or practice?
I'll talk about your club.
Oh, I'll do a speech, I guess.
Then, okay, practice speech.
Why not?
And they gave me the valuation with team structure and content in one of the clubs.
And I tried to get back the same venue on the Monday this year after the after falls then.
But they gave us all stuff, right?
And guess what happened?
What?
And we say what happened?
What happened?
Well, I went to a, well, I got very tired at 10, 11 years as well as like 2013.
So there's like a vegan, not vegan, but there's a vegan place friend told me.
I went in there, had some food in there.
Okay, that's right.
I thought, okay, I can walk from here to the other place.
I'm not sure what exactly.
I went in some place, and asked, or whatever.
And I was walking down the road.
And there's a helicopter.
And I can hit here up in the sky.
And I'm not thinking too much of it.
But there's a helicopter.
I'm picking up, oh, I'm picking up a little bit odd, isn't it?
Why am I picking a helicopter up here?
And so I went down, found my place.
Or suddenly, there's a pub down the bottom of the road that's like perfect.
That means my venue is just round the corner pretty much.
And I was walking on the road slightly as well.
So I got pulled over by this police woman.
And I was like, why am I being pulled over?
Why am I being stopped?
Why have you stopped me?
What made you say on the road slightly?
Well, it wasn't that.
It was nothing to do with the road.
But said to me, you can't come through it.
I could see the people in the building I'm trying to get to.
Because literally, just stop there upstairs.
See that people in there.
And there was a guy outside, please go.
And he said to me that they were searching for gunmen, right?
Which you don't tend to really get around.
I mean, America, if it's a different story, isn't it, with guns.
But in your work.
Must be Tuesday.
What?
Must be Tuesday.
Now it was a Monday.
It was a Monday.
And I was like, really?
I can't.
And then I realized, I can't.
I'm not going to get to this group then.
And I thought, well, I've tapped taxi out to get to this area.
And pubs are open.
And if it's so dangerous, they're going to...
Well, quite a lot of other people around there as well.
And I thought, well, I think it's so dangerous.
The pubs weren't there.
Just had more drinking food in there.
But then I went back to my hotel.
I would talk to this such a list that I was doing a night shift again.
And I said to him, like, oh, yeah, I guess that's why I'd just been...
And how I got caught up in or what happened up there.
And he was like, oh, yeah, yeah.
I live...
He said he lived near there as well.
And we got caught up in it slightly.
And we looked for an update in French or he did.
And then I got one next day properly as well.
And I really had been some gunmen held up on a road nearby.
And they've been just stealing luxury watches.
And there were 30 police involved, including the helicopter.
It was a bit like, really?
And I got a video clip of the helicopter and the story to tell.
But really, I wanted to be at that other group that evening.
And so if I get there this...
If I get there and say about four weeks' time now,
because it's coming up again, I'm assuming it goes to plan.
I'll be telling people the story, I expect, that they're there.
And there was like a big attack in 2016 or something in Brussels.
So yeah, things have happened before.
So they pull you take stuff quite seriously now.
There's a shame when you're so close and then you realize you can't go.
And I spent another...
And I couldn't go to the other one the next day either.
Because that wasn't on properly.
So I spent two extra days there.
And I can't even go and do the things I wanted to do.
And obviously the longer you stay away somewhere, the more you pay it as well, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hello.
Yeah.
Hello.
Who's Fred Black?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I made a show in like July or August,
that since then I haven't really been too active in the HPR community.
Where are you from, Fred Black?
Germany, but I live in Sweden.
You might know my father through HPR, Falky.
Do you speak Swedish as well?
Yep.
Do you know Swedish as well?
Yep, I do.
I mean, I've been living in Sweden for like almost my whole life.
So, yeah.
I speak Swedish fluently.
You all can tell that Sven's got ox.
So, do you have a Falker?
Sorry.
Yeah, he has what I said.
I'm pretty sure we've been through English.
What's that?
Now, it's clacky as well, obviously.
If you spoke to clacky, I'm in England, really.
But yes, I am half Swedish as well.
And then we got clacky, who I hope you spoke to somewhere.
He's good.
He might be here.
It's saying that he might come back later, but even though he's Swedish,
he for some reason lives over in Hong Kong for a year or so.
I don't know how long, but he's over.
He might come back later.
I mean, a lot of Swedish people just end up moving to Asia for some reason.
I don't know.
I mean, Sweden's lovely.
I mean, the summer in the right kind of weather.
And it can be a nice, nice heat and nice forest and nice lakes,
and the nice sea, possibly if you need to see.
But in the winter, oh, this kind of time of year.
I don't know.
I do know.
It's not that nice.
Dark early and...
I might snow as well.
Snow is good, but dark early and...
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
And we went all quiet again.
Yep.
You're still here.
Oh, you're back.
Cool.
Yeah.
Always talking about it.
We're talking about like devices and being a hacker,
or not being a hacker, or what that meant as well.
And I said, I said there should be more shiny stuff,
just because we're limits users.
Doesn't mean we don't want shiny, some more devices,
something kind of like, wow, look at this.
I mean, hence why I do things like the pine,
pine, all this pine stuff.
And at least that's affordable for a lot of people.
It's not like the pros and where it's just like well,
with the money on that.
But that's the pine is actually good and cheap,
but cheap, but good.
Yeah.
Pine 64.
Yep.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, we got it.
No, there needs to be a little more contrast with the...
Right.
And the way is how...
I mean, it's had a discussion with someone earlier,
a little bit, but on here.
But how would the legal policy...
There's always fresh to open source.
Like you could be software patients.
It could be the...
detail violations.
It could be, you know, all that kind of thing.
And in some ways it's like, why can't we just...
Why can't people just call companies that are going to cause problems?
Just leave it alone.
And that's not quite how it works in some ways,
because there's money in things as well.
But I think some of that's quite interesting as well.
A bit like with Android, how the Microsoft went to Samsung years ago
and said he'd break in 235 of our software patents.
We want $5 for every single Android device you sell as an example.
And so there's that.
And also, progress needs some marketing or something.
Otherwise, it's just some program that sits down GitHub or somewhere.
And then no one really knows about.
Well, then I think the mobile operating systems need a little bit of a touch-up,
because a lot of them, like they work pretty well,
but they don't work really well.
Ubisoft or Ubisoft's works pretty well.
Like any of the plasma or fosh UIs are okay.
Like fosh is kind of clunky.
It runs probably...
In my opinion, on the pine phone of the fosh UI,
is probably one of the fastest moving ones.
You know, it less crashes, and it doesn't stall out as much.
I think Ubisoft is actually really good.
Yeah, I think Ubisoft or Bandit Touch, yeah.
I think that was actually very good for what it is.
Right.
I've got a friend, a good friend of mine and mine.
They said I had a challenge this earlier on here as well.
But the only thing here is that I feel the same.
It's based on an LTS from three or four years ago.
And it's like, well, yes, it is in the background.
Or it can be one or two versions behind if you compare it to the desktop on the server.
And it probably will stay like that now.
But there are reasons for that.
And I don't think that necessarily matters,
because the actual Ubisoft interface,
Unity 8, whether it's called,
and the way it works with the app,
and it really works.
It's good for what it is.
And it's reasonably,
well, it's kind of getting more established.
It's been around a few years now.
But whereas I'll see the posh, I think you called it.
I think I've seen that somewhere as well.
It was there, you can't remember that, which one, that one.
Or maybe that's the KD one.
The KD mobile, that's more kind of alpha, I think,
because I think I read that last time I looked into that,
you can even do Y-fold, that was years ago.
And there's Moblin, there's a few of these things,
but it takes time to kind of develop
and sell Fisher S,
which is not going to knock your people and all that.
And Tyzen, well, that was Samson,
but they kind of given up on that, I think.
And Firefox OS has gone as well.
Yeah, a couple of them are really nice looking, too.
Plasma, UB ports,
and the Sailfish OS.
Sailfish OS is actually one of my favorites.
But there just isn't a whole lot of apps and stuff
for Sailfish OS.
And I haven't had much luck when it comes to actually putting
a SIM card in it and getting everything to work right,
which may have been something on my end
where I needed to talk to my provider
and make sure that they know why, you know,
that I'm switching into a different phone or whatever
because I had one point where my regular cell phone had died
and I had only other phone I had around was my pine phone.
So I put my SIM card into it
and it worked for like five minutes.
And then after that, I didn't receive any text or any things.
So I was wondering whether I need to let my carrier know
that I had switched phones so they could not freak out or something.
I think there might be...
I mean, I've got to go with the phone.
I'm not your Sailfish for a long time, really.
I don't have my other phone doesn't really work anymore.
I think it's hard wishy, I don't know.
But I assume it's progressed quite a lot since
when I actually use it.
But I think there may have been a bug where...
It might be in the tourism as well,
like if you can have the tourism,
I don't have a tourism, the brand.
But if you're going to use it in the UK,
you might need to sort of tell your network
that you want a slightly different phone
or maybe that's what you're saying for your phone now.
Because I think because there is a difference,
I think also POSPAP or slightly maybe as well
between the European or the UK sims
and the signal and the networks and the...
and then the American way of doing it.
I'm not sure exactly,
but I think I might see something about that before as well.
Yeah, in Sailfish OS,
I mean, it'd be worth just downloading a copy
of Sailfish OS and trying it on your pine phone.
Just to see what the UI is,
and I think there was some phone operating system
or phone and it said,
it might be Sailfish,
it might be, you know,
I think I'd see something once,
where it says something like,
yes, you can have this in the USA,
however, it's not going to work properly
or you'd have to re-cut that up slightly
for the American mobile network.
But I don't know, years ago,
and really these phones should work on everything,
or you'd hope so, but...
Well, what I was trying on,
I think was UB ports,
because my pine phone came pre-installed
with UB ports,
so I've played around a lot with that
and then I've just gotten an SD card
and started putting different,
other different operating systems on it.
What I thought was interesting was,
well, no, there was a years ago,
there was like 12 OSs and one SD card,
you could download it,
but allow you to see the or whatever,
or you'd pick which, which,
well, as you wanted, then you could just,
never actually did this myself,
but I knew there was like a project,
and you could put that on your pine phone.
But why I thought was interesting
with pine, pine phone,
pole pine, pine 64,
not just a pine phone,
but the pine tab and pine tab 2
and all that, importantly, as well.
Why not the pine time?
Actually, that's a separate opera.
Not really done anything with those,
but, yeah, people thinking
they're going to put UB ports on,
as a fault operating system,
and they had a version,
but then, officially,
it all just went to Manjaro for some reason,
and it, okay, it works, I guess,
but it's a bit like
Radio Command Jaro,
so marked in the space OS
that can work on the phone.
But why is that the fault operating system?
I don't know, but it is,
and then your KD as well.
It was gone with some like UB ports,
because that was more established.
But they went and put Manjaro
on the fault operating system, suddenly.
I think the Manjaro,
and I think with their Plasma UI,
they actually put a lot of
time and effort into
making it work for
the pine phone,
and they're trying to establish
their own mobile UI
with Manjaro and Plasma UI.
I don't think Plasma has done their own,
oh, I would take it back.
Like Plasma has done their own
phone operating system.
Like it was...
They have Plasma mobile.
Yeah, there was a KD phone.
Yeah.
They don't know, I believe,
they've done something as well,
but these are like very sort of
out for a beat, so I think as well.
Well, Fosh is known.
The Fosh UI is known.
And Fosh was put together actually
and that's how Windows Mobile
failed apparently, because
I've had tech people say that as an
operating system, Windows Mobile
was alright.
And I had Microsoft pine,
but all their money and everything.
But it still failed.
Didn't get enough sales.
And apparently it was because of the apps.
It's a lacked app.
The problem is wondering
if we know an app or something like that.
And that's been the problem
yeah, you can have this in that.
But by the way,
it won't run WhatsApp or
Facebook or whatever it is.
They might go, oh, I don't know.
Oh no, I just go out and Android
or iPhone then.
Although they have emulation in
Tizen as well.
We can run Android apps.
I tried that before,
and I said one, I got in from
eBay, from India or whatever.
And also,
on the old telephone,
like Angry Birds working on boat.
Well, both of these phones.
I don't know how well it demoing work.
And even a bunch of touch
from the right hardware,
you can get Android apps working.
Or that and more than that.
And with,
and then it's something that's called
and.
Yeah, there's two ways of getting Android
work apps working.
I think we haven't touched the right hardware as well.
Android apps.
But that has changed a little bit under
you report.
Yeah, I know Sailfish had the ability to run Android apps.
Or it said it had the ability to run Android apps.
But like I said, the only time my
ever-pride Sailfish was on
the pine phone.
And I couldn't get any Android apps to work on
the pine phone version of Sailfish.
Yeah, I think it's progressing.
I haven't used it recently.
But then they'll come to,
there's a lot of Sailfish people come over
with. I would have actually gone to
dinner this year.
But, um,
with a friend or sort of thing.
But that didn't happen because some other reasons.
And I got back.
So the hotel. That's my dollars in.
But, um,
but maybe this went so well.
I don't know what happened.
But maybe because I know a lot of the Sailfish
are asked developers to meet up in Brussels
as well.
And, and maybe have a talk.
But, yeah, they don't have a dinner yet.
Not something.
That's it.
No, I've been in, well, I've seen a stand before
years ago when it was new-ish.
And I was like, oh, Sail, what's this?
Okay.
Hello.
To shame in a way, though, because
these platforms are actually very good for what they are.
I mean, I mean, you be poor.
So Ubuntu touches.
Yes, it's not perfect. It's not, you know.
Okay, you could say, you could argue and say,
you can't compare it to desktop like I said earlier.
But, I don't think that matters so much.
It's three based on 20.04.
Okay, it's, was it.
It may be so, version behind.
And we're about to have another LTS coming out.
Think, although it just was one.
But, with the interface,
yeah, how it works.
It's quite good.
I have to redo the apps at one stage as well.
So, effectively, we're going to click packages to snap the awesome thing.
And Sailfish, again, that's good.
Tyzen is, well, Samson's, like, backup plan.
I've read the Amazon now want to do one as well,
because they've got fire sticks and all that,
based on Android, based on Android.
But they want to make their own Linux-based operating system.
Which, for some of these kind of devices,
I think that probably makes sense as well.
So, they don't have to rely on Android too much or all, really.
And the name isn't big enough to make their own operating system, yes.
Based on Linux.
Maybe one day we'll get it.
Somebody will figure it out.
We'll get it all together.
Yeah, sharing, really.
I mean, like I said, you know,
Ubuntu Clutch is good.
Do you think Sailfish is, I suspect,
getting better and better and better as well,
as are, well, some of my polyp sure is,
and OS, and all of these, really.
But, yeah, they're just like an issue thing,
because, no, because average people are just,
they're just not going to buy it at the moment.
My device with any of this.
Technically, they're all quite good and impressive.
Yep.
And I think desktop Linux should be,
I mean, it was a joke for many years.
So, and so, years are going to be the,
desk 2024 is going to be the year of desktop Linux.
Yeah.
Yeah, that always drove me nuts.
Because honestly, you cares.
I mean, if you, I mean, you could say that,
the desktop Linux, yeah, has already come because of the Chromebook.
And you could, you could argue and say that the year of mobile Linux
has also already come because of Android.
But obviously, if you want, we're talking, you know,
if we're talking to me more, the desktop and the Linux that we,
we're used to, then obviously,
that's like a brand new touch or something like that.
Because that, that really is.
Now, a terminal there, you can,
it's a, it's a monthly file system basically in the background as well.
And cell fish is probably a bit like that too.
But, um, they're, yeah.
And, well, yeah, in some ways, it's like,
who cares if, so and so,
using the Linux or not.
I mean, a lot of people are a bit afraid to try something out.
So I'm going to do this speech as well about how you can easily install a lot of breeze.
It's not a computer or not.
That's going to make you try and make it funny as well,
because people say, hey, slide cells are boring.
But, um,
tend to a class or something.
I've got some ideas.
But, I want that, but yeah, I mean, it is really easy.
Once you've gone past your F button down and got in the BIOS
and made sure the USB boots,
you don't have to make a USB first.
And then you go for install, you might make partition,
or you just follow it through.
And I'm sure you know what I'm talking about,
but it's not, it's not bad.
Oh, yeah, of course it is.
Yeah, well, yeah.
Well, I'll take a second.
Yeah, I could do that.
I can, I can install pretty much back to front.
Although I did have a weird issue one, one year,
or on a HP laptop that came back with a replacement motherboard,
because it windows work.
And then I took it to a USB stack of Linux.
And that was, and why did you want to know what,
it was, it was, it wasn't grabbing the black screen.
And it was like, why, what, why did it give me a black screen?
And then my friend figured it out partly,
and then I got on the ideal solution on the internet eventually.
But yeah, that is a kernel parameter.
It was like a BIOS bug or something.
Or it wasn't exactly the same motherboard.
And how to use a kernel parameter to load it up.
And it would get, get around there.
Cool.
I've run into situations where just USB stick
it wasn't recognized that boot or for whatever reason,
the ISO that I downloaded, it just didn't,
it didn't like it's stuff like that.
But my point was that we've hit a point in the Linux desktop
where we can basically do everything
that any other operating system can do with some very minor tweaks
in between.
So it really doesn't matter that, you know,
because anybody, if they, if they want to get the,
get the job done, they can pretty much get it done
from any operating system at this point.
We have to do most of the same computer tasks from,
yeah, basics like sending email and web browsing
to maybe photo editing to, maybe even some CAD or something,
some gaming even.
Although, although I have found that,
there's only problem with the speeches.
I've got to, I've got to, I need the device to work.
I tried to project it the other week
at my somebody had from my club.
There's one in the room as well,
but that's these different ports and adapters.
And for some reason, it didn't work with a laptop.
Now, I've got a cool boot on the laptop.
It might be related, like my friend suggested,
or it's not.
Or it's because I've got an operating system
that was sorry in the OS originally.
I basically, a button in the eyes,
did it a few times,
like put all the reapers on it's,
there's not really a clean distro installed of either.
And, well, that was probably really used to bump you now.
99.9% that,
we're just slightly over sorry,
and that's left there,
like the playing screen and the p-pays
would have been disabled.
But, I don't know,
he said to connect,
plug it in with the HMI micro USB,
a controller TV here,
and then press control P in it should work
on every change resolution.
I went to Glometting,
I went to Malta even after that,
and I can't seem to find,
as I go get this working,
especially because, ideally,
especially because now I've got certain people,
at least these two people,
on my club thinking,
oh, you always get them about Linux,
just going to be embarrassing, basically,
if I can't get it working with Linux.
Even though I didn't want to go down on that,
like the OS walls
or the MyOS is better than your thing.
I mean, we have hybrid meetings,
as the pandemic is down,
once a month,
I didn't set them up,
didn't want to use Windows
or the Mac,
or the Android tablet,
and I was like, fine, yeah.
So I never said like,
can I ever said,
I never said like,
now we've got it,
let's just do all of the Linux.
I never did that.
But, I don't know,
just kind of make sure it's work,
go to make it work.
Yeah, I mean, it should work.
What normally happens is,
it's something obvious,
when you know what the problem was,
and you think,
oh,
oh, is that what it was?
Okay, now I understand.
Sometimes with these things,
usually something really obvious,
and when you figure it out,
you're like,
oh, is that right, didn't work?
Okay, now I understand.
I think the other thing is,
people don't,
I mean, not quite the same topic,
but I think people don't get tech
as in,
and then when people do get tech,
and then they don't understand those people,
they think they get,
you get enables,
like somebody who's got autism, for example,
or somebody who's a bit weird
or different,
let's say,
because those people don't understand,
do you know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
I want to say yes,
but go on.
Well, yeah,
I mean, I did the autism chat earlier
with net minor a bit,
because he brought up,
when I was listing,
originally,
but I think,
I knew,
I knew somebody like that,
and he was a support word,
actually,
14 years working with people
at autism,
and Asperger's, right?
And there was this other guy
that he worked with,
a guy that I knew,
and yeah,
he's called autism,
but he was all into Linux as well.
And he basically said,
he's basically really impression,
I don't know,
I don't have,
I don't have,
I don't,
we,
I've contact with this guy anymore,
but he,
he,
he,
he was giving impression at times that,
he thought that Linux was for like,
people with autism,
Asperger's,
because he didn't understand tech,
and he would be one of those people
that would just like,
all my friends
are using WhatsApp
or something,
okay, I'll use WhatsApp then,
all my,
everyone uses Windows,
they'll use Windows,
everyone uses Microsoft Word,
they'll use Microsoft Word,
and I'm not sure if I'm making sense there quite,
but,
but he didn't,
you know,
he didn't get tech,
and he wouldn't understand
why I'd want to go to like,
an open source event
or something,
really,
and why that mattered,
and,
and things like that,
I don't know if that makes sense,
but,
yeah, I think so.
Well, people are scared
of what they don't understand about,
and then they can,
they start paying labels on people,
oh,
oh, that person's,
but yeah,
I,
and people,
although people do,
I talk about Elon Musk these days,
of course,
but he's,
he's quite clearly,
he said,
well, he probably does,
but,
look what he's done,
you know, he's rich,
yeah,
so you can get that as well.
I don't know about you,
but basically,
I mean,
that have to be rich in life,
you can do,
you can do things
that are quite amazing,
and not ever get,
enough,
never become rich,
and get enough money out,
money out of it,
but,
I mean, Rich Astalman
is,
what he does is quite interesting,
for example,
not just him,
no other ones,
but,
you don't get,
you don't get rich doing that,
so,
from it,
or you can be, like,
someone like,
Elon Musk,
who's done my ever
with business,
and then,
and then, as we come rich,
yeah,
you know what I mean?
Do I mean?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
No, I think people,
I think people
are,
people are,
so you get labour
when you can make people
aren't sure about you,
whatever,
possibly,
and now we've got some
the else here,
now it looks like.
Hello,
hello,
hello,
it's,
no, let's,
you have a little problem
with mum-line
and push-to-talk,
but,
every time,
I push it,
you don't hear me.
No, no, no,
we do.
Now we do.
Maybe a little bit low, though,
I'm not sure.
No, it's fine.
It's good.
Okay.
I heard you already had
Fred,
my son,
my child.
I heard you,
you talked about
alternative phone distance,
did you hear about
sad phone,
such?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I've got a
fair phone.
Although,
although with that
fair phone,
now,
what fair phone
for you?
So it's probably
like two years old now.
I didn't have
actually done much
with this.
I was already,
I was going to buy it
maybe with,
EOS,
preinstalled,
because I read that
the Mandrake
or the Mandrava
founder,
come up with his name,
and has,
had basically
cited one,
he's Android alternative,
privacy respecting,
operating systems,
they're pretty much
unknown, I guess,
called EOS,
I think it was gold.
And I thought,
oh, that's interesting.
I just have that
preinstalled, maybe.
Although I'd have to pay
full price,
that's the only
downfall.
I don't really have
the money right now
to pay full price.
But then I found
that my,
but then I found
that my mobile
network
frame,
the
phone frame
with,
I have,
sorry,
I have a
phone 3 plus,
that I'm using
right now,
while I talk,
and I have a
phone 3,
that I also buy
from Guy
in Great Britain.
That
Fred was using
before,
but now he's
using a
phone,
and this phone I
repaired,
it had a little
problem with the
load.
Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's super
very quick a
protector.
How can you
and she had a third phone and she was saying how it's fixable and all this and I was like
okay and then I got to say in contact with her and all that and I ended up with a third
phone for you myself but yes one of the selling points is that if you need to say the camera
replaced or something like that you should be able to quite easily replace it or you can
unscrew it maybe you can replace it and also the other main telling point was that they're
supposed to be a bit more ethical however you may there's supposed to be more environmentally
friendly because obviously certain points of bad components in there and things like that
and this was supposed to be more green and environmentally friendly as well I think that's what
you were trying to say there as well thank you if I'm correct yeah a push to talk but
Chloe meant as well no I'm on yes I was actually one of them that paid for the first
fair phone I have in one a draw I have it still a number we were I don't have it with me we are
only for some days in Stockholm to be here on New Year's Eve as you all know I see the townhouse
from here 99 minutes left 99 minutes yeah it's Fred in the background out here you know he
says a little bit and I don't know I said are you moved to Sweden from Germany and then
nothing they'd spared but you sound like you're with him but yes stop Stockholm is it can be nice
also y'all can bet that's Ranske oxo I can speak Swedish as well because I'm Swedish actually
as well I'm England say yeah I wish to talk Swedish now other if you can't
let's stop there in the summer there will probably be a lot of that actually yeah I'm actually from
Germany in the future for example I don't really know what to do but there will probably one was good
okay I think I shall go back to my wife and she's waiting for me to come back so we can
have some yeah okay anybody here yeah it's the best soon I'm still here just got back from
Walmart okay where do you get more out I needed some I you know Levi jeans right the old school
jeans yeah I busted my last hour earlier today and I need a couple up so I'm going out tonight
some friends and couples I'm going to go to New Year's party yeah yeah I love New Year's
party just play some games I mean play some cards some of them be drinking I'm gonna be driving
tonight so yeah not while they're they're gonna be a little bit but they're not not for me not
this year because I got to do some driving so yeah yeah just just out there hanging out with
some friends you have a special not yet but no actually is well two hours and a half
and you're hanging with us online now I kind of well not that well kind of but I wasn't really
doing anything this new year anyway so now I'll show you on TV the fireworks say I'm now
watched the Sydney while earlier online or heavy on TV and I went back a little bit like this
this is like the London one but this seems better and they're and they put they put music to it
but their first song was like a New Year leave song or something and I thought music and it was
like said New Year's Eve wherever and I thought actually that's good music to go with the fireworks
the first one and it all got a bit rubbish after that but at least take the stay look to very very
good and Sydney yes it's obviously their one the first plate well New Zealand Sydney and yeah
on the first to go in now the new year is a bit of a I'm told to like go out and get like
well yeah maybe some people will do enough at ease but I think I think the drinking thing is more
if you've got the friends I've got a little brother as well he's in his twenties you know if you
if you've got if you've got if you're young enough and got the friends then sure that's what that's
what they do so a lot of people do here as well they go and they go and get drunk on New Year's Eve in
particular and times like this you know and in English society or Britain is very kind of like
sort of set up around alcohol in some ways as well although they will they will I age check people
at times as well like are you over 25 one or what's the legal limit in England or Britain
well what we limit for alcohol up in a car or you mean the age to drink yeah that's that's
the one that's the one that I find a bit silly as well right because in America I believe that
they can start learning to drive a car when in about 15 yeah at 16 is I think the
that's when most people get their license to start learning to drive a car how to drive a car yeah
yeah yeah yeah the spiked how that could potentially kill somebody or something
when just somebody if it goes wrong yeah whereas England the UK is 17 for driving car right
but as drinking is it drinking is 18 however lots of people are going to start drinking four
to 18 even though they're not supposed to really like that but they do yeah I heard a lot of British
hubs and it seems like 21 which seems a bit silly you ready for drinking but it's about in the
car thing at 15 if that's true it's like what you let him then drive at 15 the car and not a drink
till 21 yeah I know I get that I'm in Canada so the pencil which province you're in right it
bounces between 18 and 19 for drinking and and most kids get their license at 16 yeah and then
there's certain rights at 16 here I feel like they can get married at 16 move out at 16 things
like that but then certain things you just love to be 18 so no pub surfing for you tonight and
then this then they do this like a check thing on the 20 20 or maybe did delivery out but I've got
some alcohol got Christmas my biver and stuff and and they've done and I was like what you want
a check me really I'm definitely over 25 it was like it was the app apparently he's like oh but
the app doesn't know I was like no I put my date of birth of my year of birth in on the app I'm
I was like I'm not 18 19 I'm definitely over 25 as well as a bit it says it says on the thing
like bring your ID down it's like really yeah but that Uber delivery I'm sure there's a lot of
kids that or two big crates of alcohol like 10 oh yeah there's two big crates of alcohol 10
50 side that both of them end up with lag going on the one but that's all right I'm getting
to my little Christmas probably being drinking something you're gonna be drinking some of that
tonight if he hasn't already yeah some of them will pretend they're 18 or or possibly
whether not you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work
today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for HBR has
been kindly provided by an honesthost.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on the
Sadois status today's show is released on their creative comments attribution 4.0 international
