Episode: 4478
Title: HPR4478: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4478/hpr4478.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 01:05:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4478 for Wednesday the 1st October 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025-6.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Ahukah shares part 6 of his list of Subscribed channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah for Hacker Public Radio.
Welcome to another exciting episode.
This one is coming to you out of the Reserve Q.
And what that means is that there have not been enough shows submitted.
And this is, you know, Hacker Public Radio is a community project.
It requires that the community provide shows.
And at some point, if we don't provide enough shows, the whole thing is going to shut down.
I'm going to assume if you're listening to this, that would bother you.
So, record a show.
It's not hard.
There's plenty of information.
The plenty of shows have been done about how to record a show and how easy it is.
So, with that, I'm going to continue with what I've been doing is going through
my YouTube channel subscriptions and talking about them.
So, the next one I want to talk about is called Galia Social.
Now, Galia Social is a band.
And there, oh, I guess you might call sort of the jazz fusion kind of thing.
Maybe not sure how to describe them exactly.
But I enjoy their music.
And so, I have their channel in here.
Haven't heard a lot from them lately.
So, this may have been faded away a little.
But, you know, as I said previously, I leave channels in my subscription thing,
even if I haven't heard from them lately, because it doesn't do any harm.
And they do put something out again.
I like to know about it.
Now, the next channel I want to talk about is called Gamer Gramps.
And this is about fellow who's into gaming and talks about games and will sometimes give tips
and tricks and discuss strategies and stuff like that.
And, you know, obviously, as you can tell from my Civilization series,
I'm kind of into all of that stuff.
So, that's one of the channels I have.
Then there's Geography by Jeff.
And I like this.
Jeff comes out with a weekly video.
And, you know, one of the things that he does is he'll take some aspect of geography
and shows how it explains something.
So, for instance, why is it that the vast majority of U.S. population is in one side of the
country and not the other?
And he'll go through the geographical regions and discuss while all of that stuff happens.
So, he'll just pick some spot in the world and say, okay,
do you ever wonder about why it works out this way?
And, geography has a lot to do with it.
Now, back in my teaching days, it was some years back, but I taught a course in economic geography.
So, this is something that is, in fact, interesting to me, at least.
If you're not into geography, you probably wouldn't be interested, but it's up to you.
Next one I want to mention is called Getaway Guru.
And that's another one of the cruising channels that I subscribe to, because as I have explained,
my wife and I in retirement are trying to devote ourselves to travel, because
we've reached the point in our lives where we don't need more stuff, but we don't mind getting
a few more experiences.
The next channel, Harbo Holmes.
And this is a doctor who, primarily, in fact, Holmes has spelled W-H-O-L-M-E-S.
So, I don't know if you pronounce it Holmes or Holmes or what, but
you know, his primary interest is in reviews and discussion about Doctor Who.
It's obviously an interest of mine.
Then, next one is Harry's Moving Media.
It was originally called Harry's Moving Castle.
Now, if you're into anime, you may know that there's a Miyazaki film called Howell's
Moving Castle. And he was obviously basing it on that, and then at some point decided,
you know, I might get a copyright takedown over this. It might be a little too close.
So, he changed it to Harry's Moving Media.
Now, he does a lot of Doctor Who stuff, and that's what I'm interested in, but he does other stuff.
So, he will do reviews and analysis, basically anything in nerd culture, so to speak.
That's kind of the way these things work.
Now, the next channel I want to talk about is called Healthcare Triage.
And this is from the same people who do Crash Course that we've talked about previously.
And Healthcare Triage is hosted by a doctor who is a faculty member at the School of Medicine
at Indiana University, also a columnist for the New York Times, and so reasonably well-known
as someone who discusses health issues. And he will, in Healthcare Triage,
what he'll do is he'll take a particular topic and do a show about it.
Sometimes, he'll do three or four shows in a row because it's a big topic.
So, it might be something like what is the evidence behind a particular sort of treatment,
or is this disease something you should be worried about a lot, or is it something that you can
relax about? How do policies affect healthcare and health outcomes, stuff like that?
And that's something that I have an interest in. So, there we go.
Then there is a channel called Herlock. Now, that's a take-off on Sherlock,
but it's Sherlock as being played by a woman, and so it's kind of a female Sherlock.
Haven't heard a whole lot from them lately, but again, that's okay.
Then there's History Hip. This is a fun one, and it is a history-focused,
obviously, with a name like that. But these tend to be somewhat longer than some of the other
channels. They will frequently do shows that are 45 minutes to an hour in length.
Some very interesting people involved in this. You'll see the same people repeat,
not every single episode, but there's a sort of a cast of characters that they'd
draw upon for this. Now, some people are into medieval history, some are into
weapons history. What have you? They put out a lot of content. There's usually
one every day, or at least three or four a week, and because they're long, I'm selective about it.
If they're going to dig into the British Army's weapons from World War II,
some people are going to be absolutely fascinated by that, and God love you for it, but
it doesn't really do a whole lot for me. But on the medieval history, I tend to really enjoy those.
They've got one particular PhD historian, Dr. Eleanor Yaniga, who I really love.
Does medieval history stuff. I'll watch anything she's in. That is history hit.
Then there's history matters. History matters is kind of a short program.
They will do something that's like three minutes long, it's animated,
and they'll take a topic and just be a question that they'll go through and answer.
The last one, for instance, was why didn't the United States declare war on the Ottomans
in World War I? Well, there's reasons for that, and so they discuss that, but it's a short
enough thing. You can do it in about three minutes and explain that. Then there's a channel called
History Respond. Now, Respond is a reference to what happens in computer games,
is that often if your player has been killed, it will then respawn somewhere in the game,
and you get to continue playing. This one talks about computer games,
how well they replicate aspects of history. Civilization is frequently discussed.
It's not the only game they discuss, but it's a frequent one, because obviously the nature
of civilization is going to touch on aspects of history. It's almost unavoidable when you think
about it. Then there is history time, and history time, I think is an interesting one.
These, it's a mixture of shorter and longer videos here, and they do a lot of stuff on medieval
history. Now, when I say medieval history, generally you're talking about anything between the fall
of the Western Roman Empire, and that's conventionally dated to 476 AD, up to say the Renaissance,
which is going to be 14th, 15th century. You're talking about roughly a thousand year period
of history. People used to call that the dark ages. I don't think that's really accurate,
and I don't think any historians would say that now. This channel focuses on that medieval
history, particularly the northern Europe, but not exclusively. They did an interesting one on
the invasion of the mod jars, and another one about a slave rebellion in Iraq.
So there's a number of things. The length of the videos can vary. They did a long one on how England
was made, the Vikings versus the Saxons. It was an hour and a half, and you know, covered about
a hundred years of history, of the conflict between the two groups of people. And then other ones
might be, you know, ten, fifteen minutes. So, excuse me, a good channel. Then there's how stuff
works, which is an educational website. And it does short, mostly, videos.
A number of them are what they call trivia questions, and those are usually about just under two
minutes. Other ones, let's see, it's like China's legendary Great Flood, or one about ridiculous,
Victorian, etiquette rules. So, you know, generally relatively short and stuff that I find interesting.
Then there's Hubble Web ESA. ESA is the European Space Agency, sort of the counterpart to NASA
in the United States. And obviously, there's a lot of cooperation. So this channel, you know,
Hubble is a cooperative enterprise, and this ESA puts this channel out, and it's going to give you
news and the latest videos that have information from the Hubble Space Telescope. So, I really like
that. Then there is the Hungry Passport, and the Hungry Passport is a travel channel. So,
again, as I said, where my wife and I are into travel and love doing it. So, this is a channel that
gives us information about that. So, they did things about what are the coolest medieval towns in
Europe, what are the 36 most beautiful places in Switzerland? Their videos tend to be longer,
but, you know, they don't come out that frequently, so that's okay. And I think I'll mention one more
before we wrap this up, and that would be inside crews, yet another crews-related slash travel-related
channel. And so that gives us information on crews stuff. So, with that, this is Huka for
Hacker Public Radio, signing off, and is always encouraging you to support FreeSoftware. Bye-bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of
recording podcasts, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our
sims.net. On this advice status, today's show is released under a Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License.
