Episode: 4455
Title: HPR4455: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4455/hpr4455.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:50:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4455 for Friday the 29th of August 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 hash 5.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahukha and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is part 5 of my list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukha, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
This one is for the Reserve Q. So if you are hearing this, you should be drawing a lesson
that the Reserve Q is being drawn upon because there aren't enough shows.
Hacker Public Radio is a community project that depends on the community providing shows.
When that doesn't happen, at some point we might just have to shut the whole thing down.
If you are listening to this, I am going to assume you care enough that you would like
to see this thing continue, so please contribute some shows.
It is not hard to do.
You can find quite a few programs already on Hacker Public Radio that explain how easy
it is and people explaining how they make shows, so there is really no excuse.
This I am going to continue with looking at YouTube channels that I subscribe to.
I have done this before, so what I am looking at is as of January of 2025, which is when
I am recording this, I have no idea when it is going to go out on the feed, but this
was the state of my subscriptions at that point.
If I come back in a few years, it will probably be different.
The last time I did this was 2019, so that is like six years ago, or five and a half depending
on when I did it.
So picking up Doug Helvering, this is an interesting one if you are into music.
Doug Helvering is someone with a PhD in music, he is a classical composer.
He was a faculty member at the Westminster Choir College for a number of years, and basically
COVID kind of wiped out things.
Enrollments dropped, he didn't have tenure at that point and got laid off and ended up doing
these YouTube videos and has ended up turning it into a living, basically, through Patreon.
Now the deal is, he has a strong background, obviously as a composer in music and music
theory, and so he takes different kinds of music, rock music, various kinds, and will take
a piece of music and analyze it, do a reaction to it, et cetera, on this YouTube channel.
And I am a musician myself, and I enjoy listening to him do this.
So it is a fun channel if that is something that you would be interested in.
Now the next one is the Duo Lingo channel, and I have talked before about how I started
during the COVID pandemic learning Spanish.
And Duo Lingo is one of my primary tools, there are a few tools that I use for studying
Spanish and Duo Lingo is one of the primary ones.
So I have subscribed to this channel, now lots of times it is just a quicky little one-minute
bits of humor, but they do a conference once a year, and so talks from that conference
also get broadcast on this channel, and I like keeping up on what is going on.
So that is what the Duo Lingo channel does.
Next is a cruise related channel called Eat Sleep Cruise, someone who likes to take
cruises and does YouTube videos about it, and then another one called Emma Cruises, a lady
named Emma, who cruises.
And so she will talk about the cruises that she has been on and what her experiences
were.
Then there is Emperor Tiger Star.
Emperor Tiger Star is into maps to the point that he will do maps, talking about conflicts
in history, wars, what have you, and he will do maps that illustrate the progress of the
war day by day in some cases or maybe week by week or month by month or what have you.
And he also does shows where he takes a look at maps that are absolutely horrible and points
out why they are horrible, usually because they are getting seriously wrong, the borders
are in the wrong place, you know, that kind of stuff.
Now the next one is Extra History.
This is an animated history program that I enjoy.
My first degree is in history and I have a strong interest in history.
So they have kind of a humorous slant.
They just did, just finished a series, as I'm recording this, about Florence and the
Medici family and their conflict with Pope and it involved assassinations and all sorts
of interesting stuff.
They did one on, for instance, Garibaldi and the Unification of Italy.
They did one on Ibn Batuda and his various journeys.
So it's a fun little challenge, each episode, they come out once a week, they're about
10 minutes long, so not a huge deal.
Now the next one is Extraordinary Universe.
This is a science program, a space-related program.
So astrophysics is basically the focus and it's hosted by an astrophysicist.
And so I'm a space geek.
Then there's Fab4 free for all.
Well, Fab4 means the Beatles, I hope everyone knows that.
And so this is a program with three people who are longtime Beatles fans, slash experts.
I know one of them hosts a radio program that I listen to.
Another one has written a book about the Beatles cartoons that is considered the best reference
on the subject.
And so they will talk about, well, like right now the big thing that everyone is talking
about is probably the latest book in the McCartney Legacy series.
But when Get Back was out, that was something people talked about or if there's a new box
set coming out, they'll talk about that.
And another Beatles channel, Fab4 Archivist.
So this is someone who puts out videos from time to time, not terribly frequently.
And they would be telling stories about people, places, etc. that are tied with the Beatles
in some way.
Then there is Fall of Civilizations.
This is another history one.
And this channel produces these videos that are actually rather long.
They can be an hour and a half long, for instance.
And that they only do it like once or twice a year.
So when they come out, I find them interesting.
You know, if they did something like that every week, I would probably have to drop it because
I don't have that much time, but it's good.
It will dig into, like the first one was about Britain after the Romans left, you know.
And then they might talk about the Fall of the Mayans or whatever.
This channel is called Phantom, and it's F-A-N-T-O-M.
And it is a channel of fan-related stuff.
The parts that I'm interested in, which is a fair part of what they've done over the
years, is the stuff pertaining to Doctor Who.
So this is another one of those channels that I follow.
For Doctor Who, analysis, reviews, things like that.
Then there is Fire of Learning.
This is a channel with slightly longer, not as bad as Fall of Civilizations.
But Fire of Learning will put out videos that might be 15 or 20 minutes sometimes.
And a little more frequent because of that.
And it's going to be a topic.
A lot of them are historical, but they don't have to be just about history.
They could be something about science.
And it's a pretty good channel.
Then there's the Fire Sign Theater.
I don't know how many people know the Fire Sign Theater these days.
They were really big in the 60s as kind of a recorded comedy.
I don't know if you would call them America's answer to the Goon Show.
That would be a not totally inappropriate comparison.
And I've been a big fan for a long time, so I subscribe to their channel.
You know, occasionally they put stuff out.
The group, I think two of the members have passed away by now.
And there was originally four people.
So generally, if you see anything on here, it'll be some archival material they dug up
and decided to put out on the channel.
The next channel is Five Who Fans, and you know, does what it says on the tin.
It's fans of Dr. Who, and they occasionally will put out a video discussing some aspect
of Dr. Who.
Now the next channel is Fraser King.
Now Fraser King is a space journalist, is what he would call himself.
He's not himself a scientist.
In fact, he was in the software business, made his money, and decided to finally get
out of that business and pursue something he loved, which was space journalism.
So on his channel, he does Q&As.
He does interviews with people who actually are space scientists, astronomers and what
have you, and does really good, really good work.
So I recommend it highly if you're a space geek.
Then there's the Fur Peace Ranch, Fur as an FUR Peace P-A-C-E Ranch.
Now this is, the Fur Peace Ranch is something owned and operated by Yorma Kalkanen.
Now Yorma was the lead guitarist for Jefferson Airplane, and then he and the bass player from
Jefferson Airplane, Jack Cassidy, formed a group called Hot Tuna.
Now I've been a huge fan of Jefferson Airplane, I've been a huge fan of Hot Tuna, I'm a huge
fan of Yorma, and his solo stuff.
He built this ranch, as he calls it, in Ohio, and does a number of things.
He offers like weak lawn music camps, there are people that want to study guitar with him.
He'll also bring in other guest instructors as well to participate in these.
And also we'll do periodically concerts.
And it's the concerts that I'm interested in at this point, and I'm not really at this
point in my life heading off to music camp, a bit old for that.
But the concerts are nice.
I like the way he plays a kind of, what we would say in here, East Coast Piedmont Blues
kind of style, of acoustic guitar mostly.
So that's the first piece ranch.
Then there's a channel called Fluid FY Fluids Dynamics, FY Fluid Dynamics, all one word.
And again, it does what it says it does, it talks about fluid dynamics.
So it's a scientific kind of thing.
They don't release a lot of videos.
Now one of the things that I've said before is that if someone releases videos very infrequently,
but I like the ones they release, I just leave them as a subscription.
It doesn't do any harm.
The way I look at it, I get, anytime someone on one of my subscription channels releases
a video, I get a notification.
And I can look at the notification and say, yes, I'm interested in watch the video or decide
I'm not and just delete the notification.
Because it's like it's one of my politics things and it's an hour long video and of what's
going on today and it's like, I don't really want to spend an hour on the day's news.
I'm more interested in bite size.
So generally, even if people are infrequent, I leave them on there.
It doesn't know harm, it's not like it's taking up space on my hard drive to have a
YouTube subscription for them.
So I think that's enough for this.
This is Huka for Hacker Public Radio, signing off and is always encouraging you to support
free software.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and R-Sync.net.
On the Solaris status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0
International License.
