Episode: 4233
Title: HPR4233: OggCamp 2024 Day 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4233/hpr4233.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:50:05

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4233 for Wednesday, 23 October 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Off Camp 2024 Day 1.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 30 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is interviews from Day 1 of On Camp 2024 from Manchester.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
As you well know, in HPR 4197, I recorded an interview with Gary Williams who took on
the monumental task of rebooting Hacker Camp, the free Libra open source software event held in Manchester.
Due to one thing in another, it had been five years since it had been put on and we went on a road show.
I kicked my strecs out of the car and I grabbed Dave from Manchester after a three-heart delay
and for our drive, which turned into a six-hour drive, we ended up in Manchester.
We had a fantastic week end and I'm looking forward to doing this again at some point.
So here are some of the interviews that are recorded at the event.
Sit back, relax and enjoy.
And we're at On Camp again and I'm over at the Open Rights Group booth and I'm talking to.
Yeah, I'm James Baker with the Open Rights Group and I'm the kind of campaigns and advocacy manager here at Open Rights Group.
So can you tell the people at home what the Open Rights Group is?
Yeah, well we've been thinking about how you explain to someone and in some ways I kind of say a little bit like the UK EFF
in that we're a UK-based digital rights campaign.
We're not like partisan campaigns, we're people more difficult backgrounds.
For what brings us together is we're passionate about defending people's human rights in the digital age.
So we kind of do a mixture, we take people to call, we do push-com campaigning, we write reports.
And we try and hold both pick tech and government to account on how they misuse technology.
So what sort of actual, what do you stand for then?
What do we stand for? Well, I guess human rights in the digital age.
So we believe in rights to free expression online.
So I guess like the right to privacy is another right which is frequently abused online.
So that's on the main two rights but potentially like any human rights can be impacted by uses of technology and how kind of big tech or companies use our data against us.
Or potentially how kind of governments places under surveillance we use our information and data against us as well.
So we try and like to stand up for all of those digital rights but can also come into things like consumer law, platform power as well.
So how these big platforms like YouTube, their moderation policies, licensing issues, interoperability issues around different platforms.
So it's really like a huge scope of work that we're doing.
At the moment, we've got like a few particular campaigns we're focusing on.
We've got run around the home of some EV scheme which ties into all the issues around digitalization.
All of people's identities and the software that they're using to do that digitalization.
We've also got a project looking at things like pre-crime which is use of a particular pleatin software.
It's been deployed by various people. So it's across the UK at the moment.
So we're kind of trying to keep an eye on monitoring those software technologies, how they've been wide.
I mean, I sometimes like it's it quite scares me that no one in position of authority has read.
Fidip cadence, minority of all and scared of his stuff while I am.
And we've got a range of stuff from me like got here at my colleague Mariano.
We're working on issues around like AI, slurping up people's personal data on platform like Facebook at the moment.
So we've got in plain in with the ICO on that.
And we also do stuff around trying to hold like the regulators to account over their lack of enforcement on these things as well.
How has Brexit affected the coverage of like the GDPR and the digital right act?
Quite a lot because obviously like the UK is starting to diverge from the EU position on GDPR.
So you see at the moment something like the implementation of AI and how please get access to that data.
You've got the US model and then you've got a kind of European model.
And the UK is like, where does it sit?
And it's going to be interesting, obviously the last conservative government in the UK had a very clear direction that wanted to move more in favour of just allowing companies to do what they want with data.
We're yet to really clearly see where this new Labour government is going to take things but we know.
I think October 24th they're going to be releasing a new data protection bill.
So we'll see by the content of that bill really what that new direction is.
But I mean we're keen to like get good regulation regulation.
It's fair, but also you know allows people to do things with technology.
We don't want to stop people doing something with technology.
There has to be done with proper consent people that respects their data as well.
Yeah, that makes sense.
So there's a lot of stuff there on your shopping list.
How can you afford to pay that when you come to the checkout?
How can we afford to do everything we can?
Well, that's the sad reality is like there's even more we'd love to do.
I could like pivot into a bit of the sponsor here saying they're like,
if you do care about yourself, you are a menstrual organisation and so do like get involved, give us some money, please give us the money.
But no, seriously, like you can join as a member and have like a say in our direction as well.
So if you do join us, you get to kind of have a say in the direction of things we're in campaign about.
So a lot of our funding comes from that.
We also have some corporate sponsors, some companies out there who believe in these kind of values as well.
And because it's cool, good supporters.
And occasionally we get grants from different organisations to work on different jets.
So thanks a bit, you know, you put like an ice stock and stuff.
We've given us some funding to work on topics like encryption as well.
So if you do get funding grants, times to work.
It's definitely something that we have discussed on the HR privacy and security series.
So it's great to see you here.
And how has the response been so far?
Yeah, I mean, I think like an environment like this, you're talking to people who are aware.
And a lot of people have heard about us.
And that's fantastic.
Just like touching base of a lot of our supporters and members.
And this is kind of informing people what the latest digital rights issues are.
So always love to come along to an event like op camp.
And if somebody wanted to learn more about your project, where would they go?
Oh, well, we try and like broadcast the most social media platforms.
So probably like if you're on a social media platform,
find those followers of like Macedon on Reddit.
Sadly, we're on TikTok.
But we have to go where people, where the masses are to communicate people.
Or like if you just prefer using emails like that, you can just sign up to email us and get news like that.
Or you can kind of look us up on our website.
Don't be going to me.
Don't overright scoot.
Perfect. Thank you very much for taking the time and enjoy the rest of the show.
Okay, thanks now.
Walking around here at the exhibition in Alcamp.
And I'm over at the United Tech and Allied workers booth.
And I'm talking to John Chadfield and also around Cohen.
And tell us guys, what is this?
Why are you here?
So we're the union for tech workers quite simply.
We really enjoy sponsoring and supporting grassroots events like Alcamp.
We've got a lot of our members are contributors in part of the FOS community.
So it made sense for us to be here in sponsor a key UK presence like Alcamp.
And when you say union, what do you mean a federation of corporations or something?
Oh, we mean a trade union.
So we're a body of workers getting together collecting big to improve their rights in the workplace and outside the workplace.
And trade unions have a big cornerstone part civic society.
And we get involved in stuff inside the workplace.
Like sporting community events like this.
But usually tech workers are not in unions.
Surely they're not allowed to join union.
That's true. In this country, the unions and tech industry kind of passed each other like ships in the night.
One growing well with the other one was fighting for their lives.
But yeah, we've been around for about four years.
Tech workers, either union, just like anyone else.
We see the bread and butter issues with us and tech employers, you know, anything from inshification of terms and conditions to de-skilling, to sexual harassment, gender imbalance in pain.
Like it all exists in tech as well.
And unions are just as valid here as they are everywhere else.
I'm sure you will have no issues with AI or anything.
Yeah, we're opinionated.
We're opinionated on AI, I think.
Mostly it's just we seem to be uniquely credible source for the media to sort of demystify some of the hype curve stuff that's out there.
It's all marketing, you know, generally by the grifting community.
And unions can be a counterfoil to that, just like the FOS community is as well.
And we've got a lot of, yeah, a lot of sitwires is there, I think.
So you are affiliated with any of the main unions in the UK?
We are indeed, we're part of the communication workers union.
So we've got the posties and role male people and you go to the BT engineers, all the telecoms.
And now you've got us and tech.
Fantastic.
And what are they say I want to join the union?
Do I need to announce that to anybody?
Or is it private?
How would we go about doing that?
I want to join.
Well, union membership is confidential.
You don't have to tell anybody in your company.
The union will never tell anybody in your company about your membership status.
Unless you ask us to, like if you invite a rep for a disciplinary or grievance meeting.
And you can just join by going to Utah.tech for last forward slash join and fill out the form there.
It's one of the cheaper unions around, especially for tech workers.
And how much is that?
It maxes out at about 8 pounds 60 a month if you're working full time at the moment.
So about a Raspberry Pi for a year.
So many of that.
Yeah.
Python London.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fantastic stuff.
And have you been active at all?
Have you had any achievements?
Load achievements.
We are organizing with Apple retail work as an Apple stores.
Tiktok Condon moderators is the current hot one.
People at the Turing Institute are currently organizing against redundancies.
Monzo.
Monzo.
Dale.
Where else are we?
Microsoft.
Google's a big one.
Well, over the place.
Well, one of our, one of our wins that we've had replicated around lots of workplaces.
Lots of this and to be interested in is like mandatory returns to office policies.
And we've managed to successfully overturn those many time they've come up for our members.
So yeah, there was power in the union.
Thank you very much, gentlemen.
I'd appreciate to be here and to hopefully we'll catch you again.
Thanks very much, cheers.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
You too, bye.
And we're down here at another booth.
And I'm looking at a brother at a brother.
He's sold in this machine.
Well, let's actually find out who it is.
Hi.
Who am I talking to?
Margaret Lowell.
I'm from the University of Warwick.
Yeah.
And this is some of the outreach work I do at the University of Warwick.
I'm a member of academic staff.
So I also teach.
But we support schools where maybe they just need a little bit of a helping hand to inspire the young people.
Okay.
So now I was not expecting when I walked in to find a, this is a sewing machine.
Browing embroidery.
This is an embroidery machine.
It looks like a sewing machine with a like your old type of singer sewing machine with the wheel.
But it's very electronic.
It's got a sort of round frame.
Frame.
It would be like a for half of a for a five frame that you presumably clamped the 1210.
Yeah.
So.
So.
This is.
So Margaret is now clamping the thing up, clamping the cloth in.
Put a piece of cloth underneath the sewing machine.
Lock the sewing machine in position.
And it's an embroidering machine.
It's probably not knowing you so much.
That's a sewing machine.
But now we have an embroidering machine.
And there's a touch panel display in the front of this embroidering machine.
Yes.
Yes.
So what we use this for.
We're using softwikled tactile stitch.
Yeah.
People tend to be familiar with tactile graphics.
Yeah.
And it's like that.
You're instructing a turtle to move and to turn.
Wherever the turtle goes, we can stitch that pattern.
So in turtle graphics, that was the first thing I did way back in the day in computer.
So you go north two steps.
You go east two steps.
You go south two steps.
And you go west two steps.
So you just met a square.
So you're doing something similar to that, but with embroidery.
Yes, that is.
We specify the number of degrees.
So you go forward.
So many steps.
You turn right.
I'm sorry.
You turn right.
90 degrees.
Or a very in a 90 degrees.
Okay.
So you specify.
This links very closely to the key stage two curriculum in primary schoolness.
But what is that?
What's I'm not familiar with it.
Then we have a lot of US SNRS and listeners from all the countries.
Okay.
The key stage two curriculum is where the government is specified.
Yeah.
What content should be in children in the last two years of primary school,
which is children aged 9 to 11.
Okay.
So this touches on that curriculum in terms of computing.
Yeah.
Maths because they need to know a functional math.
Yeah.
And also designing technology.
Yeah.
So it makes a very interested cross curriculum.
What are your projects?
And your display here for people who can't see it that will be a link in the show notes.
I'm looking at some geometric patterns.
Something like an audio wavefile.
There's a flower.
Surrounded by a square.
Something that you might get on one of those, what do you value the extra?
Spyrograph.
It's Spyrograph.
Yes.
Yes.
And then all sorts of different colors and stuff.
So that is fantastic.
Yes.
I tend to use felt because felt is very, very tolerant.
So when children make patterns, it tends to enable them to.
We don't worry too much about how many stitches are in an area.
If you were to do that with a more sensitive fabric, you'd create holes in the fabric.
So I tend to use felt because children can choose the color.
Yeah.
This machine has only got one needle so we can only have one color at one time.
Yeah.
So if the machine is the bottleneck in our whole process.
So if I'm working with a class of 30 children, I keep the thread the same.
They can choose different colored felts and we stitch their individual patterns in front of them.
So they go from a virtual design to a physical tangible object.
And I'm describing this as a different type of physical computer.
Fantastic.
And where can people find more information about this if they're interested?
So there is a turtle stitch website which was created by Andrea Mayer.
And that's www.turtlestitch.org.
Or if people wanted resources, we do a lot of teacher training at Warwick.
It would be warwick.ac.uk forward slash turtle stitch.
I run regular training sessions for teachers.
Every two months I run an online session.
So if people are interested, if they go to that URL, they can register their interest.
But the materials are all free, little videos and things like that for people to use.
Fantastic.
Thank you very much for taking the time and enjoy the rest of the show.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys, we're back.
It's on count 24 and we've just come out of the Toxjam podcast.
On your hands?
Andrew, also known as Magnetwood.
Kaby?
Also known as Kaby?
Also known as Kaby, yes, I'm Kaby, blah blah blah.
And I'm out.
So you just gave a presentation on false.
We just did a first ever.
This is the first time we've ever made up in the flesh.
And we decided and thought, let's try and actually do a live show.
Which we were not sure how it was going to work.
But we seem to get good feedback then.
What is Toxjam?
Toxjam's podcast is mainly about open source, small and open source projects.
Stuff that maybe doesn't get an awful lot of price for coverage.
And maybe doesn't even get when that were known in the geeky community itself.
But we want to give them a wee bit of publicity and also to mix that with a bit of music.
Creative Commons, which I think is where.
So who picks the music?
The combination of us.
We all pick the music.
We all pick different tracks.
Okay.
So is there anything.
What types of license is the show released under?
Creative Commons by AC.
And the content is released under Creative Commons.
That much.
Be sure to share a like.
Yes.
The music within it.
We always include a link to the actually every track so that you can one check the actual license.
And how long has the show been running?
Well, I think it's for 12 years now.
Yeah.
It's what can be started.
So he was so originally just cavey.
And then a few years into it.
I came alone.
And then Dave was added.
And then most recently in the last year.
So I think it's 12 years.
There's 111 episodes.
111 episodes.
111.
111 episodes.
112.
Perhaps we're good in live when we just did.
Was that 111?
I'm sorry.
111.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yes.
We don't know.
Yes.
We don't know.
We should ask our.
I can't count.
We should ask Peter Panterson because he.
He's super fan.
Yes.
So it actually started.
So it actually started.
One to guys.
They've known each other.
How was the train destroying that podcast?
Yeah.
It was good.
It was kind of a rule.
If you can only go on the show.
I basically.
You're fucking.
They did.
We do a Christmas special.
I'm really looking forward to doing this.
Yeah.
With a Christmas geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Geeks for Chris.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, basically we give different pride ranges.
And you have to choose a light.
What you'd like to receive for that kind of price.
So Dave did one last year on the little game.
Vice.
And I went and kind of reviewed it.
And then I haven't left since.
Yeah.
You're one of those.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My.
My story is exactly the same as that.
I came on.
I think it was actually to cover you.
You went around for a week.
And then they invited.
Do you want to come in and stand in for me?
And then I think I then had a week.
A month off.
And then they said.
Oh, you coming back again.
I said, oh, you won't be able to.
It's a guest.
No.
No.
You will want to bounce.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It's all either.
I did a really good job.
I managed to fool them.
It's a thing that I was sort of worthwhile.
But they've not been able to get rid of any sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's one thing I didn't notice about today's show.
That it was a smidge and shorter.
That was obviously the times and streets.
And pulled the bomb fitting in a fixed slot.
And you're more freedom.
And it might.
It may also have been that there was no alcohol.
Yes.
Of course.
There was a lack of beer.
So first ever dry or touch jumps.
Yeah.
Start doing this from one to one part.
Yes.
And do you have like a never considered separate fee for beers and the.
We keep talking about this and it never actually.
It's a big idea.
We do this all the time.
We need to have a beer.
Yeah.
We should do.
But we do.
We do discuss the beers.
But they have to think of out as parts of the uncut feed rather than the family friendly.
Finally.
Finally show.
But beer is a.
Oh, careful.
How I say.
It's an important part of the overall experience.
Or they're having said that there is one amongst us who does not mean beers.
No.
Yeah.
Um, I'm a mate.
You should ask their opinion.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't drink some of that.
Yeah.
And I do drink.
And I do bring the alcohol free beer tonight.
Yes.
I do.
I do.
You know me.
You know me.
Yeah.
We have our own wine.
Which we do.
Um,
we do on telegram.
Yeah.
We, we have.
I know we come up with a alcohol free-bill or a very low alcohol free-bill.
And tell us now a little bit more about their online protocol.
So what?
What is the portfolio for those of you who have a.
Having my greater from Ireland where alcohol is a normal thing.
This is going on.
You're asking you.
I'm going normally.
I'm not looking.
I'm trying to explain it to somebody who doesn't know what a football is.
It seems like a very strange thing.
So, what's up, Upcrawl?
Well, it is going from a place where you drink alcohol and you go from one pub
within the UK, it's called a pub, isn't it?
And you go in the public house, it's short for pub.
And you go from one pub, I have a beer, and then you go to another pub,
and I have another beer, and it's basically where you're just getting up and
measing up the drink.
I haven't actually been to the official public hall, which I really did in person,
which he didn't glass go normally.
Yeah, it was a big glass for you.
Yeah, but when obviously you had the hit with the virus and everything stopped,
we went online, did it differently.
So we then, come online, we started using Gitsy, but we knew I'd do it on
Telegram, where we all come along, and we just sit and drink.
You don't have to drink, you can bring up me, I bring my calico,
whatever, cup of tea, and we're sitting and there's chat about anything.
We have people from all over the world come.
We have Peter come from, or Peter and George, we come from America.
What was the guy's name for Nezily and he come along?
I'm sorry, sorry.
I just came to the first one, I think he came to the second one.
I think he's already there a couple of times, you've not seen him since, but yeah.
Yeah, we have from, yeah, Nezily, that's what it is.
And is the pub crawl mostly, you guys talking or is it just like that?
No, everyone can talk.
It's the opposite.
Yeah, we don't know, we don't even get an agent when we get George and
we don't get an agent when we don't get a word network, so.
But the good thing about it is when we start six o'clock UK time,
which I appreciate to many early for people like, well, for robots,
six o'clock, seven o'clock in the morning, but for those in the US,
they tend to, and that's an important, they will tend to go to,
they'll tend to come on a quiet later.
So, I mean, you don't have to be on for the whole thing.
We start with six until whenever.
Yeah, six PM UK time come whenever and it's again,
you don't have to be on for the whole time.
You can drop in, drop out.
So, yeah, it's a good time and it tends to be, to be honest,
it's almost, it is almost like a many on count in the sense in that it's,
it's most, most of them on their gigs very much.
Yeah, you know, see, they talk so good.
Yeah, it's a very informal and it's just, it's just like going to the pub,
except when it's time to go to bed,
you just post your laptop and go to bed and it's no,
no staggering hope falling in the back.
Yeah, just imagine going through the motions of getting the taxi
and you're going to be in the corner and turn.
And after 12 years or you're not just in a bit exhausted or tired too much,
especially you, for example, brother,
I'm talking about the pub,
I'm talking about the podcasting.
The pub talk, it talks jam podcasts.
Yeah, and it's a lot of work.
There's the expectation to let you follow a schedule,
so that you release it and you're always your happy soul puns.
You know, sometimes one of the things that we do ensure on this,
that we do share the workload.
Yeah.
So although Kenny does the majority of the work,
actually putting the show together, editing and the structure and the publishing,
and I do some of the, I clean the audio before he gets put into editing.
Al, that had to do, sorry, does the, you're out.
Yeah, does the show notes?
So that's something that's just actually worried about.
Elsefair Lee Lou, we haven't allocated him a task yet.
He just looks there, looks, looks pretty.
But I think in terms of, of exhaustion,
I could say, for myself, I couldn't give him no.
This is something that I think we all in the show too.
And it's, it's all,
we don't have a rigid show.
We tend to release months later.
There are times we'll go through the entire summer and not release
a show.
There are times when we will maybe do two shows in a single month.
It's whatever works and whatever the surface does.
So it's fun.
Yeah, it's a fun thing.
And we all generally get only for the point we all get in our separate
little and more than Google.
Yeah, it's actually some people are forward to.
It's not a chore.
Yes.
It's just, it's a fun language that public and pal,
I accept your 12th year bonus.
He nerdy felt, actually.
So, to be honest, that's what I would say with any of you.
What you said, they give a starter podcast.
Only do it, it's fun.
Yeah, maybe someone don't.
It's not.
It's not going to work.
And you're usually by mistake.
And I mean, I think that's one thing that has kept us going for so long.
We enjoyed.
I did take a bit of, I just went,
it was just me and that's when I pulled Andrew and actually,
to say, come on, I need my back side being kicked here.
It was always something else to do.
Yes, yeah.
But the whole thing is, I didn't have the social aspect.
There was no meetup with myself.
It was, it was another chore too.
I would actually see it again.
One, it's going to be fun.
And two, I would say, get somebody out with you.
Even if they don't want to talk, just be there,
be making a social aid.
Yeah, that's it.
I mean, obviously, then the show lots of stuff.
Do you take suggestions for, for tunes?
And do you take any suggestions for,
I just realized, almost,
you have to be free to vote as well.
Music comes from.
You don't talk outside of me again.
But redundant, if I suggest to them,
but not absolutely loopy.
Yes, please do.
How do you love actually get me to do this?
How come somebody came up to us after the talk and gave us a suggestion,
and he said he didn't put his hand up,
and he wanted to give us the extra.
So, yeah, absolutely.
So just email in,
the easiest one,
Tux-Tram, that.
Tux-Tram, I don't understand.
Listen, guys, I'm holding you up from your dinner.
Thank you very much.
It was a great, great to be on there.
Thank you for the child God for HGR
and tune in tomorrow for the only exciting episode.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
Bye.
Join us now and share this off there.
I'm recording.
And we're here at UnCamp,
and we're talking to an old friend of the show.
Hi.
Hi, this is George at,
or at Geospart.
And it's been a while,
but you're a feature of UnCamp.
What brings you here all the time?
Mostly the friends in some of the talks,
but the people,
the people are the main thing I come here for.
It's a different sort of event.
Have you been to other events?
I was joking.
What makes UnCamp different, do you think?
UnCamp is smaller,
and I think it's more personable.
Yeah.
You get to know the people,
where if you go to these bigger ones,
there's thousands of people,
you might need to stick or hunting.
Yeah.
Sticker hunting, yeah.
So there's not,
it's smaller,
and I get to know more and more people,
and I've been coming since 2011,
and I don't know what's happening.
Do you fly in from the States?
I do.
I do fly in from the States.
I started when I lived in Charlottes.
I'd fly in there.
Now I fly in from Jacksonville,
but they're not a hub.
So most of the places I have to leave
to fly out in New York or Philly.
Yeah.
Is that not rather expensive?
It's, it's a astronomically expensive, yes.
Yes it is.
So in essence,
me buying the ticket to come here
is just the small part of the cause.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, it's great to see it.
Any talks that you've been to,
that you think anything memorable,
that you think people should have been?
Just the one I was in,
and that was obvious.
Nothing else.
All the other stuff is bad.
No, I'm just kidding.
There are some really good, good talks in here.
I mean, they're all memorable.
This year, because I didn't volunteer,
I went to Moore, so I saw Moore,
and I enjoyed, and you know,
I learned some stuff, but they were all good.
I'm not going to point one out
because then to be like,
well, you want to mine is this?
No, no, it's fantastic.
Do you have a good time to see pointing to?
Okay, well, I brought my sister with me.
Yeah, her name is Lisa,
and she's, you know, never been.
So, what was you, what did you like about it?
I'm sure it was like framed up as a thing.
Shall we go to the UK?
And no, no, actually,
she knew exactly what she's adding in.
I knew what I was getting.
I was visiting friends and going to an event.
Yeah, yeah.
And, um,
please, do you want to come over and see?
No, no, no.
She does not, she's camera-slash mic shy,
so have you been to similar events in the US?
How does it help?
Yeah, I've been Southern Southeast Linux.
I've been to, um,
I've been to a bunch of virtual ones
because then it had to end like,
thank you, Khan and, um,
MazFest and stuff like that.
Um, there's some local things,
but I mean, nothing,
this is my thing.
Have you been to one where the HGAR table was?
The US HGAR table?
No, I've never seen you in the US.
We must, um,
make sure that we organize the table
so that you can go and sign the...
You know, I might be able to,
I might be able to work for you doing that,
because, you know,
Jadin...
I mean, I'm not doing much now, anyway.
Yes, it's recorded.
We have it right there.
Okay, guys, thanks for taking the time for the interview.
And was there anything else that you wanted to say?
No, that's it.
Um,
uh,
love being here, love everyone here.
And it's, it's a great event.
Yeah, we want to go.
Enjoy the rest of your stay.
Yeah.
Has anybody been listening to HGAR Public Radio at HGAR Public Radio?
Org?
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listening like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
An Onesthost.com
Internet Archive and R-Sync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under
Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
