Episode: 4283
Title: HPR4283: Toley bone repair
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4283/hpr4283.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:26:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4283 for Wednesday 1 January 2025.
Today's show is entitled Tollybone Repair.
It is hosted by Mr. X and is about 6 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, this is a quick episode about how I repaired vintage dog walking accessory.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio Dance.
My name is Mr. X and welcome to this cheeky podcast.
I don't know what's happening but this is my tenth take or something like that.
I can't get my teeth to work for some reason.
Anyway, as usual I'd like to start by thanking the people HPR for providing this service to us all.
HPR is a community that podcasts a provided by the community for the community.
That means you could contribute to.
If we all gave a show, we'd have more shows than we'd know what to do with and it's very easy to send one in.
The HPR janitors and stuff have gone to a lot of effort to make this very easy for us to do.
You just had a cord button and something you've got, send it in and off you go.
I'm sure we'll be going with this episode.
So it's boxing day just now and I believe for a wee bit short and shows.
So I'm probably going to send this into the, what's it called, the reserve queue.
So yes, if you've got a show, send one in.
If you haven't done one this year, maybe the first one for this year, I don't know.
If you're also in shows that have more than know what to do with.
And if you don't send one in, you might get more of these at a DAF free shows.
So what's this show, what's it about?
So I have a Tully Boone as I call it, the Tully Boone.
And it's used when I go out walking with my four-legged companion.
You can look up the Scotsword to Tully if you're not sure what that means.
But it does come in extremely handy.
And it's quite an old Tully Boone.
The Hada, I'll send us some pictures so you can work with it if you don't google it.
And it has a holder that you can clip to your fellow companions' lead when you go out walking.
And I've had it for many years and it initially had a plastic clip on it and it broke.
And I think I fitted one of these with a carabiner, metal clip things.
So we fake when it's not a real sort of thing that a climber would use,
but it's a tiny miniature one of those.
And that lasted for a long, long time.
In fact, I think Mrs X said, oh, I think my granny was still alive when we bought that.
So it's very, very old. It's many years old.
And we were all nuts.
I couldn't repair that, I said.
So to actually know, the clip broke and I put that carabiner thing.
But then recently it broke again the actual clip that the whole, that the carabiner attached to,
that broke. And then hence Mrs X said, yeah, we're going to buy new one of those.
And I said, oh, we were all nuts, I couldn't repair that.
So I snapped off the remains of the clip that was on the body of the Tully Boone.
And they smoothed it out because it was a bit rough, catch on things.
And I drilled two small holes and then I pushed a cable tie through one hole,
attached another end, cut it off and on the other end as well.
So it created a hoop, a loop so that I could attach the carabiner thing to,
I think I should call it a carabiner.
I've got that wrong, it's a apologise.
But anyway, so actually I thought, well, there you go, I've solved it, that's fixed it.
But in actual fact, it hadn't, because the cable tie snapped shortly thereafter.
When my furry companion was unfurling his lugs by shaking violently after the walk,
I was landing on a pavement sort of thing. I couldn't believe it, there's one walk.
I thought, this isn't going to work. So I got a slightly thicker, I think it was a thicker
cable tie and it now works perfectly, I've had it for a good long while.
The only slight problem is that when you're fitting the new insert into, it tends to catch a bit,
so you can't fit a full bag dispenser thing in it, you've got to take one or two out and use them first.
But other than that, it solves a problem. So there you go, that's a five minute episode about
repairing my furry companion's tulibune. If you don't want to hear more of these sort of episodes,
why don't you send a show in? It's a apologise for it being a bit rough and ready, but there we go.
So I hope you all had a Merry Christmas and a new year, and I don't know, I've got a chance
to post this, but to all the very best. If you want to contact me, I can be contacted at
MrX Blueble, tracking MrX at hpr at googlemail.com. That's MRX, ATHPR, the at symbol googlemail.com. So
until next time, thank you and goodbye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. Does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a hpr listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
or cast, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
things.net. On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
