Episode: 4001
Title: HPR4001: HPR Community News for November 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4001/hpr4001.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:32:17

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4000 and one from Monday the 4th of December 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for November 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 58 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in November 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is the HPR Community News for November 2023.
Enjoying to meet this evening is a severer.
Hello, it's Dave Morris in a rather chilly Edinburgh.
It's like the snow and quite overcast and horrible.
Sun's going to set fairly soon as well in the next hour.
It's enough of that.
I did notice that I had the pleasure of going over business yourself and your family as well as the miscreant from the HPR Scottish division.
Yes, and I did notice that while the temperature was the same over there, it was a lot drier.
My lips were a lot drier and stuff, probably due to the fact where essentially it's seawatering to happen.
The humidity is low here now.
During the summer it's quite high.
I can tell I've got a door that sticks in the summer and moves easily in the winter.
So it's expanded in the summer and contracted now, so it's cold and fairly dry.
Although it's been raining quite a lot and snowing and whatever, but yeah.
This is HPR 4,000 and 1, which means Dave, HPR 4,300, 4,300 and 1 episodes, that's so far from me.
We're chugging on, we're left to have a little bit of a party for the 5,000 one.
Yeah, sounds good.
I remember when we were saying Ash, it was never neat to add another digit to the HPR thing.
Yeah, we have celebrated some of the thousands along the way, haven't we?
I can't remember which one we have, but I've been involved in those days, but yeah, it's chugging along nicely.
As long as we still get a steady stream of shows, we've had some this month, but we could do it more.
It would be a good idea.
Anyway, HPR, just so you know, if you happen to be ambling on to this podcast,
is a community podcast, where the shores are contributed by people in the community.
I was trying to explain that to somebody during the week or during the month and I was explaining,
well, it's a bit like a barcamp, and they didn't know what a barcamp was.
And then it's a bit like a, you know, a meetup where, you know, a Linux, a Linux user group.
Yeah, yeah, blank spaces.
No, people apparently don't socialize anymore, you just, yeah, the idea of sharing.
Yeah, I can't think of an analogy or what HPR is that the youth would understand that.
No, no, I know.
I've also had to introduce the concept to people in the very recent past,
and they were sort of dumb struck, but how does it work then?
How do you keep getting people to do things until that's a question?
You keep begging them to do this.
This is a joke.
It's gruffle gruffle.
If you're tired of hearing this wine, please send in some shows.
Anyway, this show though is something that we do once a month to make sure that everybody gets a shout out for the show that they've done.
And let's start by talking about some guy on the internet driving in Virginia,
which was episode 397-8.
And just from some guy on the internet.
Yep, yep.
It's, I hadn't appreciated that he's a commercial driver.
He's talking about some of the weird things you can experience as
applying your trade as a driver in that state.
So it's kind of a bit scary.
Absolutely, that is the thought that I was listening to it as I was.
And I've been so essentially truck driver and sorry truck operator.
I listened to the show to know the difference and constantly been out.
Unguarded against scams and being also all the cameras that are on you.
And I was as I was driving since then on my commute.
I've been looking at where the drivers point where the cameras point on public transport buses and trains here in the Netherlands.
And it's mostly, you know, around the vehicle too.
So strange.
It's strange, just strange.
It's, yes, the modern world again isn't it?
Do you not trust anybody?
But with some justification judging by the experiences being related here,
that you've really got to have your wits about you to avoid people getting up to tricks
and stealing stuff or making you the butt of some fake accident or something.
Although that said, I recently read an article where a truck driver drove into Scribble,
the cargo phrase, or I'm handed in some fake documents and went off with a lorry load of iPhones.
Wow.
Is it a bad day for somebody?
Yeah, absolutely.
Long and short, but very interesting.
If you're living in the States, very interesting.
If you're not living in the States, and yeah, good show.
Following day, we had fire stick and ad blocking by operator.
I don't have a fire stick, but I do feel his, I do feel a certain sympathy with the whole ad blocking and stuff.
Surprisingly enough, I still buy a lot of media on DVD and just rip it to the network.
That way, fast forward to the ads.
Fast forward to, you know, there's no ads, no nothing.
It's mine, physically.
I don't know.
Yep.
Yep.
No, absolutely.
Well, I've said millions of times before, I don't have a TV anymore partly because,
well, the show is a crap and I show it to the case.
But also the ads, the ads, all my life have driven me completely nuts.
I do not see why these things should be stuffed in my face, you know, day and day out.
But I've never got used to it.
Many, I think for your own self-defense, you need to get used to it if you're experiencing it.
Yeah.
Never have been able to personally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a, but yes, I understand anybody wanted to defend themselves from this crap, indeed.
Absolutely.
And, you know, advertising is not the only way to get revenue to the content pressures, guys.
There are other ways.
I'd like them.
Well, there are other ways.
Huntsville to Vicksburg from the NSA to the Civil War wouldn't better.
I hope the other way around from the Civil War to the NSA.
That's where I would do the edges if I edited.
Okay.
So if you could all go back five minutes or to the beginning of that sentence and then pass forward with 15 seconds.
That will be great.
From NASA to the Civil War will be better from the Civil War to NASA.
Obviously, he went on the road the wrong way.
He survived a freezing weather in Huntsville and then moved on to Vicksburg, Mississippi.
The photos in this were very impactful as actually all the photos are of the trips from.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
I was browsing some of the Flickr photos yesterday.
I haven't looked at these ones.
I'm not doing any mid-sequence.
Just when I have a spare moment.
But yeah, there's some great views.
There's some very interesting pictures there.
Let's go and look at these.
I don't know what it is, but I'll just look.
Every source and there's this weird guy with a beret and a beard appears in his photos.
I don't know.
He seems to be pulling the run.
He seems to be pulling the run.
I love that.
This is a hoop that doesn't seem too worried.
Fair enough.
Indeed.
Indeed.
So, yeah, cold and failing fridge and things quite complex.
Taking this trip in an RV.
Just fairly giant vehicle, but it seems to have a few problems along the way.
Well, it's a machine in the long machines.
Ending.
Still, good thing to do though.
Good thing to get out and see you at least these fun things.
Yeah.
I really spent a lot of time looking through the photos of the Civil War battle.
And you know, we've got a lot of the eye consuming in red.
I do the same thing myself.
At the time, I just take photos of the information boards because
family are usually too bored to, you know, not interested in reading them.
So I can read them later on.
No, that's fair enough.
So the following day.
Great show.
Thank you.
Keep them coming.
The community news people talk about their shows.
I see somebody Hobbs had their questions.
Kest, sorry, Hobbs had a question.
Tens comment about demand avoidance.
Love the monthly community news show.
Great.
Thank you.
Tens comment about resisting demand, the demands of the past self from
Reminders apps struck accord with me.
I've been struggling with PDA persistent pathological demand avoidance myself.
I record an episode.
A response show to summarize some things I've learned from other podcasts that
help boost my intrinsic motivation.
Editors know also please do so.
Back to the comment.
Things like random rewards to the extent of rewards from swapping your intrinsic
motivation dopamine high.
Dave's idea to use rituals and habits is also something that sometimes
works for me.
Reli admire really admire.
The high quality open source technical infrastructure that keeps this
community thriving and the support and vibe from all the host
and contributors.
It gives me hope for the future of social media and the Internet.
Good.
I know.
Comment that.
We'll keep you going, Dave.
Absolutely.
It's a lovely comment.
Yes.
Yes.
Thank you.
Hobbs for that one.
It's true.
There's a lot of issues regarding this PDA business.
Yeah.
I'd like to.
Actually, because you know, that's practical.
If that's particularly if there's practical stuff that you can do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm sure people do have things that they've adapted to use or have
invented to help them with this sort of stuff or picked up from where
where or wherever and so forth.
So yeah, that would be fascinating to hear about.
Incidentally, we carry on.
We forgot to say about new hosts and.
Oh, God.
Hey.
Everybody.
We got it.
Thank you.
We'll start again.
Get it right this time.
No, just to say really they're on.
But it is one of those rituals that we do.
And so it's it's good thing to do them.
Yes.
Thank you.
Yes.
That was a bit sad.
Bit of a donor there.
Yes.
But still we've had some we've had new hosts for several several
months in the past.
So that's good.
But.
Yeah.
Always looking for more though.
We are indeed.
We are indeed.
Okay.
We had our 72 something initial about.
Chas GPT.
And.
Yeah.
It was.
I find this whole chat GPT thing interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It.
I quite like the sort of image of this thing struggling to.
To avoid answering your question.
And which is which is quite nice.
Also on that subject, I was listening to a podcast yesterday.
This.
It's called Skeptics Guide to the Universe.
Sort of science.
He's skeptical podcast thing.
And they were one of the members is a doctor.
A practicing medical doctor.
And he does actually use chat GPT to.
Help to.
Analyze symptoms and stuff.
And he says that in his analysis.
Is there something called Web MD in the States?
I think that's what they were talking about as well.
Web MD is is fairly way off the mark.
Or at least it doesn't try to get too deep chat GPT goes deeper.
And.
And it seems to be remarkably accurate from what he was saying.
So he believes that if it if there were a version of it,
which had been trained with with the appropriate medical stuff,
it could be a great advantage for medical practitioners.
So.
So yeah, I've been a bit negative about it all.
It seems like a like a gimmick to a large extent, but.
Well, that's something it is, but it's also got excuses.
So.
Should be more positive.
I should be more positive about it.
Any point of view.
I should I, but let's.
Frame as much for what it is.
It's a large language model.
It's not artificial intelligence.
It's very, very good.
So give it a.
I'm not saying that there are not uses for it, but again,
I see the same con artist that you're doing pushing Bitcoin and that we're pushing.
Gameification before that.
And then we're pushing whatever before that coming into the field.
So, you know, as.
But that's nothing new either when I was just watching an episode on somebody's presentation there on.
Con artist coming around when.
Rhythm was discovered.
You know, they were.
Con art.
There are always con artist wherever there is something you will be con artist.
Okay, but the show itself was about you cookie dinners.
And I'd love to hear people's opinions on that because I'm actually for that.
I think there's a lot of.
A lot of benefits in keeping in keeping your privacy.
So.
Yep.
Yep.
Great.
I yeah.
That was yes.
I would appreciate something that automated some of this because I find myself just going.
Oh, another one.
Bam.
Go away.
So yeah, I always say no, but that's just me.
Yep.
Takes a.
Thankfully they're standardizing on some of the.
So I'm getting Muslim army as to where the denial button is.
So yeah, I think if somebody can make a a Firefox plugin to accept all cookies,
they could equally make a Firefox plugin to reject all cookies.
Don't you think?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And that can be that to me will be one that I personally will be supporting with my toy card.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
Me too.
So the show archer 72 had to repulse the show because I had a in my in my role as HBRs.
And I'm not a lawyer, but HBR not one to get sued at the same time.
I had a look to see if the stuff coming from chat GPT, whether we were allowed to use it or not.
And whether it was compatible with create a common CC by S a for that zero license.
And I had a look at the terms of use.
And in my humble opinion, it's not.
So feel free to comment on either show actually on what you think about the terms of the licenses and whether they're compatible or not.
So if you're doing chat GPT shows in the future, you can you can of course do that.
But you need to refer to them in the same way that you refer to other new sites indirectly and courting.
Give an attribution, etc.
Uh huh.
Yep.
Okay.
Hoopers.
How archer 72 and I mentioned moonshine volume one.
Wow.
Thoughts Dave.
The insight I've written down here, the inside of the mind of Scotty is an unusual place, automation mark.
But he's invention is very impressive here.
I don't know what darch is somebody who's up to do it.
Skip and EU cookies is one thing, but yeah.
I certainly certainly had a few laugh out loud moments here.
So it was it was very it was fun.
It was fun.
More please more please.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
My turn to do a comment, I think, um, phrase says really you're sharing this with the world.
Dude, I thought we were keeping this one on the down low and you're naming names.
Now I need to contact witness protection again.
What's that?
Yeah.
Good stuff.
Excellent.
There's another show on the pipeline for that.
That is very good.
Very good.
I like it.
Ah, bash snippets.
Be careful when feeding darts into loops.
You know what I'm doing is just rising, you know.
Well, you know, I'm just looking for any opportunity to do a show.
Black one.
I have to look like that.
I was, you know, only time I sit down to write a bash script.
Well, Dave, the court of Dave has gone through this.
No, it's a good script.
Well, it works.
It does the job.
I don't think there's anything wrong with it.
But if you're writing stuff like that, you need to know what the pitfalls are.
So you avoid them.
I mean, you, you are not lightly to be tripped up by the, by the thing I'm talking about.
The fact that things run in separate processes.
But I've certainly fallen down these myself.
So I tend to want to warn people about them.
I have sent you at least on two occasions.
They're probably as a student or so.
I'm really glad we got the show.
And now I understand what the pitfalls are.
But in this case, I think it's fine because I'm not, I'm not going to be doing anything in the loop.
That's particularly, particularly worrisome.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I want to use it as an opportunity to just go, well, you know, they're all separate processes.
But how do you ever know what sort of thing can you use to look at this?
So this is also my fairly feeble attempt to show that there were lots of different processes popping into existence and finishing it again.
And so I certainly found it useful.
I don't know if anybody else did, but it was fun.
No, I found it useful.
And it was, it was good to understand.
I finally pre dawned on me after all these years.
Why, you know, if you do the IE goals, but why the value of I doesn't change within the loops.
And it makes just so much sense.
But also it means I can, I am now feel while using the while loops the way I am with the way I do, which is basically start on one line and then continue.
That's now I was always a bit apprehensive as to, you know, is this going to break or not?
And now that I understand what's happening, I can use it with more confidence than I did before.
Yeah.
Well, if that, if, if, if anybody's taking that sort of message away from this show, I should be very, very happy.
I did do, I just told you.
At else, anybody else?
Yes, yes.
Any optical media is not dead.
Archer 72 shows command line options for creating and writing ISO files.
And you might think this is of no use to nobody, but yeah, I read.
I just use that this week to copy a ISO file from the medical records from the hospital.
There you go.
Impressed?
That's pretty good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I have done this sort of stuff in the past.
I haven't done it for a long time, but, but yeah, I do have a DVD writer on my main desktop machine.
So it's, it's there.
Should I wish to, wish to do it?
So yeah, good, good to know, good to know, excellent.
Yep.
Okay.
The following day, where if you come to this month, the following day was the Guldrum Dawn, where some guy in the internet rammels on about a video game called Dream Dawn.
I had never heard of this one before, honestly, not being into games as much as possibly everybody else in the universe.
It is done in each of your rituals.
Yeah, well, I think I'm in the same camp as you.
It's interesting.
I think I really want to play, I feel, but yeah, it's, it's that sort of thing that you enjoy.
Then it looks like it's pretty well structured and fun to play.
It's good because I like this.
Getting this sort of show because it gives me, it gives me something to talk about with the youth.
I at least can follow the due game night somewhere.
At least I can now sort of follow what they're on about.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, um, I've made steps towards the youth that's brought with an F, of course, which my stands lent me is a Nintendo switch for the next few weeks.
So I can stumbling old, old fart, I guess, is the word he used to go in.
What does this button do?
Oh, how do you make that guy move and stuff like that?
He's not watching over my shoulder, so at least this I can be an idiot in, in private.
But yeah, so I was, I don't think I'm going to be coming out of it wanting to buy anything that's self, but it's quite, quite an interesting voyage.
Dad, I'm glad you're learning about this, but it's 4 o'clock in the morning and I have to work.
Yeah, I promise not to phone him up or message him in the middle of the night to say, Tim, how do you get out of this one?
I don't know, I'm stuck.
I've lost my window.
I found my window.
No, but it was good.
It was, uh, I kind of picked up some similarities between D and D, starting your roles and that sort of thing.
So pretty cool.
Also, it was philosophy on, uh, on, you know, online games and games that you can play yourself, whether it's online or whether it's a single player.
It ain't a single player.
If you have to be online to play, it kind of seems logical to me, but what do I know?
Yeah, yeah, that whole issue is something that's a bit of a, well, kind of hit somebody that turned off the DRM for, uh, was some.
I saw one mastodon that some DRM server for some game was turned off.
Now everybody who bought it, uh, no longer has the ability to play with anymore because we no longer support this game.
Thank you.
Yep, yep.
Yeah, great.
Well, you know, the new at the time there were posts at the time saying, dude, this is what's going to happen.
And now it's happened.
It's like hashtag I told you so, but okay.
Doesn't make it any nicer though.
I guess.
Now indeed.
Beeper.com.
A multi-chast client.
Interesting.
What's up?
I messaged your telegram and 12 other metrics.
Yeah, I had not, I had forgotten this.
It has been mentioned before, I think.
I can't remember where I've come across it, but within the past year, maybe it has been mentioned.
I hadn't looked at it at all.
So I went with the, where the visit actually.
I was, I think you need to have your login credentials on there.
Just one thing that it.
Throw me off because I use.
Um, Ferdy, if you are the I myself, which is containerized.
Google Chrome, I think.
Don't know how containerized it is, but at least the logins are local on my machine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, yes.
Anyone else?
So with experience of role, it gives us a shout.
I'd like to hear.
Yeah.
And you know, this day and age, Dave, why we can, we can land, we can land things on Mars mostly.
Yes, we can't get frickin' chuts tools to talk to each other.
Yeah.
It's not a technical.
It's not a technical reason.
Yeah.
Mhm.
Mhm.
It's a world gardening things and stuff, I guess.
Yeah, we're not going into that again.
Anywho, following day, last past security updates, November 20, 23.
This is a hookah.
It was a reserve show.
There was one comment.
Uh, the comment was from tray.
And the show was about last past disclosed that they had been hacked.
And I think by now, just about everybody's heard about us.
Uh, now we have evidence that password balls have been hacked.
So what they were able to do was download the balls of other people and then, um,
go offline,
brute force attacks against the traces, changing passwords.
One consideration when it comes to last past reach is that the attackers are actively working to compromise individual vaults exposed by the data.
They seem to be targeting no cryptocurrency traders,
but if you had a week or guessable password or low iteration of encryption,
the information you stored in your vault may become available to the attackers.
You're recommended that whatever you choose to stay out somewhere,
whether you choose to stay with last past or not, you change all your passwords,
keys, important secrets, etc.
Which were stored in your vault.
Uh, I would agree with that.
If the vault is gone, it's only a matter of time before somebody gets access to it,
change everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Sounds, sounds very sensible.
But you don't necessarily need to leave as long as you, as long as you do that, I guess, is no.
Yeah.
Well, there's other shows coming up on last past.
One thing about this was a research show.
One thing, folks, is if you're doing timely shows like this, can you put them into the main queue that will be?
It would be better because ideally in an ideal world,
we would not have to hit a reserve show for essentially years.
So, you know, this is what we tooled for them.
So, particularly if you're doing security updates or shows of a timely man,
there was some shows this, this month or next month coming up about the,
I think, trade center.
That was a trade or about.
I've done to code.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So, those are obviously time specific for the beginning of December.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How can you tell us just by trade, exactly.
So, those ones, you know, the guidelines are called guidelines because we, you know,
we expected to use your brain and in this case, trade made the correct choice to send in the shows because they were timely at that time.
And in the same way, you know, God, that's saying that a hooker is using his brain.
Oh, a hooker's going to kill me now, but it's liking them off so much this year.
Okay.
Love you, dude.
This is the fun of ad lib shows, isn't it?
No.
Next time I'm a script.
We need to script next time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
Where are we?
Yes.
Last part security of this.
Next show was playing alpha, satuary, part two from a hooker.
And it was a great show.
The best show ever.
A hooker is brilliant.
Awesome.
Awesome.
I don't disagree with any of them.
Yeah.
I'm just going to look to say anything else.
I don't know anymore.
I know.
I know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, um, it's a hell of a game.
It's, uh, it's, it's got a lot of depth to it.
It's, um, so yeah.
You're into this.
It's, it's a great show.
Uh, it's interesting to look at from an, uh, as an observer, because I'm not ever going
to play it for sure.
But it's, it's, it's interesting to know about sort of things that exist in games.
Yeah.
And again, this, I found quite interesting just from the simple point of view of, uh, yeah.
This is how games work and it's not something I personally experienced.
So I, you know, you can dip your toe in and see if you like it or not.
I, I know with my personality that I would just be gone for hours and then come back.
I feel like I've wasted time.
Operator thinks you're a pirate Dave.
Probably, probably.
And this was, uh, this is a show about, uh, operators view on piracy.
And it is well worth a quick, it's well worth, uh, listen, actually, this, uh,
and we've got some tips in there where he's got a Python script to, uh, back up and extract
save files from Xbox Game Pass for PC games.
And if that's for you, go for it.
I don't think I think we need somebody game from the games on who's into games to come on.
So the community news.
To put us right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Granddad.
You don't know anything about this stuff.
Um, we had a comment from Kevin O'Brien.
He said, love the show.
I've maintained for years that the entertainment industry has engaged in a decade long campaign
for people to use BitDoran.
So yes, yes.
I see there's a lot on social media people saying, so they've done this.
Have they?
So what they're trying to do is to push us all into, into piracy, et cetera, et cetera.
What are they thinking?
So yes, indeed.
Yes.
I can't possibly comment.
I actually am not allowed to comment.
However, if you do look at the articles and how much when Netflix and the early streaming services
come out, how how that affected piracy and how much piracy is on the rise now.
I think some of those comments might be justified.
I think so too.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm speaking for myself.
I'm not necessarily any of my employers, blah, blah, blah.
Test the quality of the day.
Go ahead, Dave.
Go on.
Go on.
Go on.
Are you ridiculing my Irishness by referring to father test?
Go on.
Go on.
No.
No.
Yeah.
I was thinking of something to say and I took too long.
So stop.
Get on with three, double nine, two, which was test recording on wireless mic.
And we got R272 had a new mic.
This is interesting.
Well, actually, for an Android phone and had a link to a XET audio recorder for Android.
And as part of that, you read out a, I think it was the BSD license.
I'm not mistaken.
Sounded good, actually.
I went looking for this microphone.
It seems not to be for sale anymore in the, in the States to the link and there, but
it is available in the UK.
So not, not fantastically expensive.
Quite interesting.
I don't know if I, if I need a microphone for my Android.
But yeah, if something like that would certainly be great to, to own.
Yes.
Very good.
It would be nice to have often felt been out and about.
Well, when I looked it up, I was thinking, never use that.
But now, actually, I'm thinking there have been times where I've been out and about.
And just, you know, wanted to do an interview or thought, oh, I could do a recording and
having a mic like that might be a thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
I was thinking the same thing.
It's a certain series of podcasts that involves sitting in a car.
Yeah.
In fact, you know, it's just dodgy car parks over there.
Could use microphones like, because at the point of it is that each, if you're
if there's two people talking, each can have a microphone, which can be quite
nice, can't it?
So you could actually go to work with something and chat and have a conversation as
you walked or something of that sort.
So, yeah.
That would get interesting.
Good.
Good, good, good.
Z is the membership card review of a kiss from Brian and Ohio.
Exxon's hubby electronics.
Ticked all the boxes from me.
Even the old card box.
Boom.
See what I did there.
It looks amazing.
It looks absolutely brilliant thing.
And yeah, it's who to thought you could get tin-sized Z80 like that.
Very good, very good.
Did you ever have a sad easy or anything?
I've got BBC Micro and the BBC Micro came with the capability to attach other devices
to it.
And I have a 6502 second process for it.
And also a Z80.
I bought the second hand because they were available in the day.
So, yeah.
But I've not really used the Z80 very much.
I have to admit.
I was more of a 6502 assembly programmer back in the day.
But yeah, Z80 would be, would fancy doing it through binary with buttons.
I have done that.
But it takes hours.
You only live so long.
But nevertheless, it's a fantastic way to learn about assembly.
What's the instruction?
How do you construct it?
Because it's all sorts of weird and wonderful ways in which you would enter the actual instruction
with any modifiers, with any data, with addresses, etc. in order to make it work.
I have done a little bit of this, but mostly used assemblers of various levels of sophistication
when I had to do something very keen on it, to be honest.
But still, it would be a magnificent learning tool to own something like that.
I agree.
I think there is some advantage to knowing a bit of assembly.
In the same way that, although I'm not that religious, I have been tempted to do.
Give me one second.
Yes, Lockdurg, Irish pilgrimage, where you go to an island three days and you're fast and eat bread and you drink tea.
You get one slice of toast and one slice of tea and you go around and say,
I think it's the rules or your meditators, if that's your thing.
It's a thing people do.
Yes, sorry.
I'm just...
Where the hell did that one come from?
Oh, I know what you mean.
I know what you mean, sure.
It's okay if I put this thing.
It's a sort of assembly language pilgrimage, you think.
Thank you.
Yeah, so you go around...
You know, doing ten decks is the rules.
You do it.
In all the space, 22.
Yeah, yeah.
CP, 94.
There is something about that.
You've got to be on your knees and there's a sentiment of, you know, unpleasant, uncomfortable clothing.
Exactly.
I don't know.
It should be more painful.
You know, the three days fasting on lockdown or doing assembly or that amount of time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I tend to see it that way myself actually.
Right.
People hit me on subscribe button as we speak anyway.
Next day.
We've got a comment from the country.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll do it.
Tray says, what fun.
This looks like it would be a very fun project.
Remind me of an old microcontroller project.
I built back around 1990 using an 8085 and a bunch of wire wrap.
It would fit in a shoe box, but definitely would not fit in out towards tin.
Thank you for sharing.
Wow, you don't hear much about wire wrap these days, do you?
No.
Actually, you do because I don't know.
There's been a lot on hacketing about recently.
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think they were recently made a emulator to read wire wrapped modules from the Apollo missions.
All right.
Okay.
Okay.
That's something down and picked a rabbit hole that was.
All the kids are talking about it nowadays.
You know, you're not even trying to get me.
Yeah.
I have to get my old wire wrapped too.
I don't have a system address.
But when I moved to Edinburgh, working in IT, I was working on a boroughs.
Boroughs B6930 mainframe, so called.
And when you open the huge thing, when you open the back doors of it, all of the circuit boards were wire wrapped.
And you'd get a monthly engineer visit, and you'd see them in the back there, taking off wire wraps and putting bit new bits on and stuff like that.
I don't know.
I never quite worked at what he was doing, but then even if he told me, I probably wouldn't have understood.
But yeah, there's lots and lots and lots of large pointy pins on the back of the circuit board with tons of wire wrap to attaching them and joining them together and stuff.
So yeah.
Cool stuff.
Did he come in and reprogram use wire wrap?
I don't think with wire wrap.
No, I think it was more he was spotting issues with the, or maybe there were upgrades that were being sent around by the boroughs company.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But it would be a very regular thing that you'd see.
There's usually two engineers at the back of this thing doing various tests within a telescope and then putting you new wire wrap on various points.
So don't know.
Hmm.
Cool.
Last pass response by operator.
And this is about a hookah show and operator was able to make in a response this month.
And Kevin Bryan says love the show.
Bravo.
I love it when a show sparks discussion on HPR for the record.
I am still using last pass and I agree with the point you make.
Very good.
And also very good that the discussion can be silly.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Well, that's just the essence of HPR is that somebody comments on a thing to their level of knowledge or opinion or whatever and somebody else comes in and comments back as a show.
It's great.
And this sort of ping pong is very, very useful.
Obviously gives us shows.
That's one thing.
But it's also there's lots to be learned from the different viewpoints of these things.
So yeah.
And it really good.
And the following day we had creating your own international radio station.
This was Claudio was using.
Excuse me.
I want.
Wanted to stream a non radio until the radio and used a.
Volume.
And then switched over to more old audio.
So coach and.
Bitten said.
Papa another tip.
Myself being happy with a HGTPS column for such for such M O P I D Y dot com on a Raspberry Pi with high.
For a couple of years now running an arch Linux arm alarm.
People are doing some interesting things.
Traces live radio secure streaming.
Thank you for sharing this.
It looks like a very fun project.
This reminded me of a project I've been noodling for some time.
I look quite a distance from my hometown and I'm unable to listen to radio streams of sporting events due to.
Location restrictions.
I've been continuing using a pie with software to find radio to build a device which will receive.
The local radio station and stream it to a cloud service which I can restrict for secure access.
I don't want the world to receive it.
I have and have lawyers come after me.
I only want to be able to log in at times when interesting events are in progress and listen to them.
I could then leave the device connected at the home of family in that area.
Any thoughts on such a project?
And Claudio, thanks while replies to Bitton's comment which I read out.
Thanks for the comment Bitton.
I did hear about Moody some time ago and it fell through the cracks of my memory wall.
I'll check it out further.
Claudio also comments on the other comment.
Relive radio secure streaming.
Trey, that sounds like a very interesting project and something I'd love to hear about on HPR.
Do let us know if it was successful or not.
Very cool, yeah, yeah.
Pretty cool.
Yeah, the prospect of using a pie to stream radio from the internet is actually quite intriguing.
And I'd quite like to have a play around with that at some point rather.
It's sometimes nice to have some sort of generic music on when you're coding and stuff.
And obviously you can do that on your own.
You see, it's something you could spotify or something like that.
But doing it that way might be quite fun.
Yeah.
It worth having a play with.
It'd be nice to see more shows.
Okay, everybody knew I was going to say that.
Anyway, following day, we had a trace, one of the thresholds about the advent of code.
So these are all of the challenges that you can do during this month.
And don't be worried if this is.
If you're hearing now from a vast majority of them, allow you to go back and.
And you're hearing at least a vast majority of these allow you to go back and.
Walk your way through them and catch up.
That's quite cool.
You might miss out on the competitive aspect.
But just for the fun of doing it, which would be my motivation mostly, I think.
Yeah, this one's good.
We heard from Daniel person about this last, was it last year?
He did, he did the challenge or he started telling us about it anyway.
And this was mentioned by by Trey.
So yeah, it's quite fun thing actually.
Can you spare enough time to do that sort of thing I find out?
I don't.
I don't.
I don't.
I don't have time.
I mean, I have tons of time, but it's already fairly occupied these days.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's for your mostly.
He could say that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You said that.
You said it all.
Never heard.
To you whining about all the work.
I give it.
I know.
When do I get that off?
I say.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nice show though.
A very nice idea for show.
Yeah.
The following day we had an absolute 3997.
The owner news.
Some guy in the internet doing one of his awesome shows about.
This time.
Google dynamic ads.
Oh, God.
I just.
I love these shows.
They're very well presented, but they just make me so depressed.
Yes.
Yes.
It's some.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Somebody was.
I heard somebody recently on a podcast or something.
Basically saying that capitalism is parasitism.
It's a form of parasitism.
Where we're the victims, where the host of the capitalist parasites.
Of course, this is just a symptom of that whole process.
My view is that advertising is a type of parasitism.
It's trying to parasitize your brain to force you to buy things that you really don't want.
But anyway.
Yeah.
So yeah, I found.
The views of the day.
You're not necessarily views of it.
I think.
Yeah.
Let's not be secretive about it.
We all agree.
We all agree.
Probably.
So.
Yeah.
It's certainly.
It's good to know about these things.
These.
These are all new to me pretty much.
I knew about the NHS Secretary Fan Guilty of access to medical records.
The other ones have not heard about it at all.
So really cool.
Yeah.
It's.
Yeah.
I mean, that sort of thing can happen anywhere in a matter of a whole.
Yeah.
What can you do?
You can have prevent a role employee.
You can do all the trainings that you want.
For instance, monitoring it.
It's interesting how they would be interesting to know how they found out about peace.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because she had been to somebody and somebody picked up.
Oh, you should have access to that information.
I've not heard very much about it.
What Scottie spoke about and a bit in.
In news media.
Okay.
So there are no news for us.
And there are no comments on that one.
So open source OCR optical characterization recognition to digitize my mom's look.
Love this.
A lot of tear to my eye.
I have to say.
Do you want to read the brains?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Brian.
That's okay.
Okay.
Brian and Ohio says, good show.
Enjoy every minute of this show.
It's something I want to try.
And now I think I will.
Nice little rant at the end.
Hit the nail on the head.
Keep the shows coming.
So yeah, I've certainly found this to be an excellent show.
I've got really, really, really hit the head.
It was one of these things that you think, oh, yeah, show about something somebody's done.
And then you realize, my goodness.
That is so impressive.
Technically impressive.
And also, you know, it's the sort of family thing.
Absolutely.
It's the family history and all of that sort of stuff.
Amazing.
It's really, really good.
That was one of the gems this month for me.
I did have a look at the script, as I would.
There we go.
There you go.
You can't play with anybody.
It's so interesting to see how other people approach things.
It's got a thing where he uses Grep with the pearl expression analyzer a bit of it.
And he's using look around assertions in a regular expression.
That has really advanced stuff.
I'd never thought doing that.
So I don't know.
I'd quite like to comment on that or maybe do a show of that.
Something to say.
Wow.
Impressive.
But yeah, it's perfect show as far as I'm concerned.
Yeah, the thing about was others.
As you was doing this, I'm scanning stuff myself and have been for years now.
And if you're going to do something like that, I would strongly recommend getting a flatbed scanner.
You know, I know it's additional money, but I don't have a nest of our camera.
So it's cheaper than the nest of our flatbed scanner will make your life a lot easier with that.
And all the other tools about game and cropping and stuff or sorry image magic and cropping stuff that works as well.
So I do use test rack.
And I've done a show about this.
So it's in the show lots.
If you go to history or even you can follow the tags and get to that show.
Yeah.
But I had a few interesting lessons learned on that particular one as well.
So good show.
Good show.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's something I'd quite like to have a shot at.
But yeah, the flatbed scanner, I'd take the point.
I did look for one this past year.
They used to be much more common than they are now.
They seem to be very few of them and really expensive, but.
Yeah.
I have one on a printer, fingers crossed, my printer doesn't break.
And it's got a sheet feeder and everything.
So it makes my life just so much easier.
I've got one on a printer too, but the printer is virtually dead really.
So it's an old HP going back 15 years on that.
So it's certainly showing its age.
Good stuff.
So holiday, this is the next one of trees.
Was they hack me.
Addent of trying hack me.
Addent of cyber challenge.
And this is the second episode.
And this is try hack me calm.
And there's links in their similar sort of thing.
You know what I actually did, but we don't normally do this.
But I think there is an episode coming up next.
Yeah, holiday challenge episode three, which is the sans holiday hack challenge.
And I think let's just have a quick heads up for people on that one.
If you're following this mini series.
And the URL for that one is sans.org for sash MLP Daniel links in the show lots.
So just so you know that that one exists now so that you can benefit from it for the end of the month.
Yeah, good point, good point.
It's in the future future feed and you can look at it on the calendar page to find it.
So yeah, yeah, I've looked at that myself.
I'll do that after this recording.
Cool.
Shall we move on?
I think we're at the end of the show.
That was a very good show.
That was a show of the month.
Episode 4000.
It doesn't feel right.
I know, I know.
But we start.
We start the next month with a nice round number.
So that's a number of 4,300.
Okay, that's all round.
So what did we miss?
Well, there aren't any comments from previous shows.
So there's nothing else in the comment area to be read.
We read them all.
There's nothing in the mailing list.
Just me telling you to come and join us yesterday.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I was going to head in February and.
That events calendar things seem to be not being maintained much.
Now there are some things in it.
But it doesn't seem to be anything in there for poster.
I'd look before we.
It started.
It's in furniture.
Is it all okay?
Okay.
Oh, well, just too.
Too quick.
We have a couple of V.O.B.
Things over.
So the first thing is to say about the New Year's Eve show. It's going to happen.
The traditional HPR New Year's Eve show will be happening.
And there'll be further details coming up on what we do.
The announcement page or something like that.
On the main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
The main page.
For the first part of December.
December.
For the first part of December.
December.
December.
December.
December.
December.
December.
March.
December 10.
December.
December.
December.
December 1.
December.
December.
December.
December.
them ahead of time. And just to say that the static site, we haven't done a lot with it,
but the business of your, if you record your show now, it could be released in so many days.
That algorithm has been a real, real struggle to get right. I think it's something to do with
trying to suck. Yeah, yeah. It's something to do with trying to do clever things in the database
versus doing, doing things in the templating system that we're using and getting the balance
of that right to prove to be more difficult than I envisaged. So, but, and what I can see,
having come up with the solution number four and having tested it, and tested it, and it's now
been live for several weeks, I think it's last fixed. So, yeah. So, yeah, I just needed to tell
everybody this for some reason, probably nobody even noticed that it was getting the date wrong,
but it's one of those things that bothers me. Next week, and you'll hear a day from Colin
thinking about did 17 for that. Oh no, it got it wrong when it was not enough days in the month,
and yeah, it probably happened in February, wouldn't it? Yeah, probably. Anyway, hopefully we've got
we've got it sorted now. So, that's it. That's all I think we're done. I'm going to thank you
apologies everybody for recording this on a Sunday and not Saturday as advertised. You did
send out a reminder. I did it. Life tends to get in my way. And tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker. Public Radio Radio Radio Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
or cast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting
for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sunday stages, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
