Episode: 4224
Title: HPR4224: Auto shop interaction
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4224/hpr4224.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:40:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4224 for Thursday the 10th of October 2024.
Today's show is entitled Auto Shop Interaction.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 7 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Archer 72 rambles about an experience in a Walmart oil change shop.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is your host Archer 72 for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is a rambling episode about some interactions in the car shop.
If you are hearing this, then the queue is very low and it needs to be produced like you
to pick up a microphone and record something of interest to hackers.
I just wanted to record an oil change and it was a long art and I was about 10 minutes
ahead of time.
The appointment was at 4 o'clock and I did not get out of there.
He had been asked after asking management to see what they could do.
I was there a total of an hour and 50 minutes from 4 o'clock to 5 o'clock.
I was evaded whether or not to go up the marker and claim that their staff needs to be
up the cell that they could be going to when they needed them, especially when they
may not have been in the morning.
I headed to the plane and I held in for the guy forming to use the waiting for almost
3 hours.
He has been asked to mention some stories to tell about his shotgun and his sons took it
and had so much power that the truck went passing somebody at 40 miles an hour and went
sideways.
Maybe it is a good thing to know.
He managed to get his gun tires throughout quite a reduced price because the guy only
had them on.
He was a sheep but a weak and he did not know the radius of his tires mattered about how
fast it was.
He couldn't get over 75 miles for an hour because he was using basic math and he said,
my diameter is 6 inches more than what you are supposed to have on the teeth.
You have another foot travel and I believe that I would want to do the math but you have
a lot more travel and then reduce the gear and you are going to be able to do that much
further for revolution.
Of course you are not going to get 75 miles an hour or you are only going to get 75 miles
an hour.
It is honored that you are at 144,000 miles and the guy told me that the guy was talking
about it.
He told me that the imports, that is including my eyes, it is hot and they do not leak
oil.
They have a rare point.
They are very beautiful.
They are very nice.
It is not really leaking.
It is just burning oil and that is because they have looser tolerances and so you start
burning a lot of oil over 100,000 miles.
My lifter is forward noise.
You do not know.
He is probably going to gear.
They do not sound noisy.
They are adamant.
I thought it was the temperature outside because it dropped close to zero and then I ran
it for a few minutes when it was 40 degrees and it still was hot.
So I should have known that you do not have an oil in there.
You do not have to pour it low and the lifter is getting noisy because there is nothing
that is not more of a squirt of what the lifters are to lubricate it and so they get noisy.
I guess they are all checks today and I guess they are all checks today.
So yeah, about every couple of weeks I probably should put it in.
I am probably begging an out to myself to check the oil.
It is part of my maintenance and I will return.
At some point this year I might want to check out how the bulb runs to check out.
It is making a little noise on broad curves as going toward starting out as wearing into
both curves and making sound like that.
So maybe I will get a chance of going on a Saturday and have it looked at.
I do the Vitus dealer or a dealer.
A family owned business was taking a family took over in Vitus and they have been there for most of the time.
Going there I only wanted to once but they were really good.
They had been in business with them for a year and a half now.
I like to go family owned business with the bulb bond business.
We had support them and they could rather to introduce me well.
They were in two hours there and they took three hours and they didn't even charge me the extra hour labor.
They were really rough because they were really reasonable on the oil change with the synthetic plant.
And it didn't take an hour, almost two hours, you know, oil change.
So back to the Walmart, they didn't actually get my car in.
So 40 minutes after the manager came back, then they decided, oh, I need to get my car in.
It's gone in.
And then it was only 10 minutes to get the oil change.
All I reason for going there instead of just going to something that was more rugged and just car parts and service
was the mid boys because at the mid boys it was $75 for an oil change, which seemed to go a little over price.
And it was $45 with the Walmart, but for the chain difference on $30, I spent almost two hours that I can't get back.
Thankfully that was time that I could sit there with the Walmart.
I could spend time with my daughter and sit simply sitting here out of town.
I'm going to spend time with me in a few things.
It's going to never be in, you know, one of the toys section.
And you know, even though she's 16, she's entertained by younger good things.
She likes man to raise by a giant man to raise.
But she has probably had five full wingspan.
But I guess the moral is you have to balance out how much something is going to cost and what you're going to save versus how much extra time you're going to spend saving that money.
Thank you for listening.
Don't forget to pick up a microphone record a show of your own or even leave a comment in one of the many episodes.
Until next time, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
