Episode: 4092
Title: HPR4092: More man-talk.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4092/hpr4092.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:31:39

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4192 for Tuesday the 9th of April 2024.
Today's show is entitled More Man Talk.
It is part of the series' health and healthcare.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 20 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Scotty talks about using bites and other things.
Good Heavens!
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
Today we're going to be discussing Man Talk.
Men's Health Issues.
Now some of you will remember episode 483, DriveCast Man Talk, will we first discuss
men's health issues surrounding bathroom habits, you know, using the toilet for the purpose
of urination and some helpful tips.
So this is also going to be along those lines, except we're going to be discussing other
things that happen in the bathroom besides urination, along with urination as to say.
So the main topic here will be badays.
Cloud 2 once mentioned in his episode, HPR 3048, Alternatives to Toilet Paper, badays.
Now I have a baday, you know, in every sophisticated individual in the land also has a baday.
But I mean don't get me wrong if you don't have one.
I'm not suggesting it's being done like an animal where you just don't even stop, you
just go as you walk or anything, you know, nothing like that of course.
But should you be curious about of a day, I'll talk to you about the one that I now
own.
I had a previous one that didn't really, I mean it was okay for what it was, but there
was another brand that had more controls and I, you know, you might be thinking controls,
but I'll get to it in a minute.
This one is called the Tushy Classic.
Now the current version at the time of making this episode is the Tushy Classic 3.0.
One is the Tushy Classic, but I don't think it's the 3.0.
It's like one of the previous versions might be the two or something.
Couple of things you want to consider before you get one is also look at how it's designed.
The one that I have the Tushy Classic is designed for American toilets.
I have seen reviews and this is something I didn't consider, but from the reviews I saw
that people with European style toilets, this American style baday does not fit on their
toilets.
So that's something you should consider.
If you live in Europe, you may want to get one from a manufacturer that designs for European
style toilets.
Also even American toilets, they're still different designs.
There's like discarded design and then there's like others, there's a brand I think called
American Standard, where, you know, a lot is in the name there.
So as you can tell, there's a little bit of thought that needs to go into purchasing
a baday.
Now what to expect when you use one?
Because obviously if you're a wiper, there's going to be situations that may drive you
to being curious about a baday.
For one, you might hear that it's better, it's cleaner, that kind of thing, right?
Two, you may be suffering from issues, maybe the different types of paper may not be compatible
with your...
Inus.
Shout out to Cloud Two for the wonderful explanation.
The affected area.
Next the term we'll be using from henceforth.
Now I've heard different terms being used for men who could not explain why they were unhappy
with paper.
I was one of them and I adopted some of the terms that I've heard.
One was endless wiping, where you felt like you could never get clean.
Now there are some other things involved there.
I'll touch on some of the solutions I've found and there'll be show notes as well.
So that way, if you feel as though you should try some of these things, you'll at least
have links to get more information before you do because a lot of it's over the counter,
at least here in the United States.
They might be over counter all over the place.
I mean, it's just dietary supplements.
But any who, the baday is a system where you use water to clean the affected area.
So the water comes in to the house through the water main and it breaks and goes into the
different areas of the house, the bathrooms, etc.
You take the water line, it comes into the bathroom that normally will go to your toilet
and you split it.
So one portion of that split goes into the tank which fills and allows you to flush the
toilet.
The other portion of that split goes to the baday and then the baday has a nozzle, if you
will.
It just focuses the point at which the water exits the water line through the baday.
It focuses it so that way it exits the baday with more pressure.
If you guys ever remember the water hose example, if you put your thumb on the hose, you
block a portion of the hose and now the water, let's say the hose is like half inch in diameter,
the opening.
If you block half of that since there's less space now for the water to exit, it exits
with more pressure allowing the water to be expelled further and in a more narrow jet
or a lance of water, whatever.
So the baday works a lot like this and the reason you do it like that is because you're
only cleaning a small area of the affected area.
So there's no point in you having like say, for instance, a cone of water that sprays
every way, you know, that would be silly here.
You just need sort of a jet, a beam of water to target the affected area.
Now with all that said, I'm pretty sure you guys have heard a lot about it already.
So you kind of have an idea and if you didn't, hopefully my explanation helped filled in
a few gaps for you.
Here's some considerations.
One, if you live in a climate or if you live in a region of the world that has all four
seasons, winters the season, you have to respect because winter changes everything.
Many of you will know that during a winter time, you have to leave your water running so
that the pipes don't freeze, right?
The water and the pipes will freeze causing the water to expand, you know, when it changes
to ice, the different state of water, it expands and burst the pipe, which is a big problem.
And obviously, if the water is cold enough to freeze and expand in a pipe, you would
also have to consider that when that water reaches the affected area.
Now, I'm not suggesting that you're going to fire a lance of water into the affected area.
And then it's going to freeze and cause us, you just going to freeze and cause all sorts
of issues there.
That's not what I'm saying, but the water will be cold, you know, cold enough to where
it would have frozen if it would not, if it were not already moving due to you leaving
the water running.
So you're going to be sending cold water to the affected area.
Now, they do have, depending on the type of plumbing you have, there are systems in place
that would circulate the water within the line so that your hot water would release hot
water sooner and there are bidet systems that also use hot water or warm water rather.
So now that you understand, it's more than just purchasing one that's going to fit on
your bowl, it's also understanding that that water has properties you need to consider
as well.
Now, with all of that out the way, I still highly recommend you getting one.
Because it is a superior clean.
The model that I have has a control which allows you to swivel the spout, if you will.
I don't know what else to call it, you know, it sprays water.
You swivel the spout to where you don't have to physically move around as much for the
water to reach the affected area.
The model I had before, the cheaper model that I had before, it was something, it was
a different brand, it still worked just fine, but it did not have the controls.
So it was more of a manual adjustment that one needed to make in order to accommodate.
Now, here's one of the benefits aside from the superior clean, that's like the primary
reason why you're going to be using this thing.
But for us guys, during the summertime, you go out and again, this is also depending
on what reason or where you're living, and if there's lots of humidity during the summertime,
we have this term called swamp butt, right, it's not a pleasant, it's not going to kill
you either, but it's not a pleasant feeling.
Nothing better than having a system already in place where you can go and get some relief.
You understand, you go and get a spray and you're good to go, you're back out, in and
out.
Now, of course, we don't have these systems in place in like, say, public facilities or
maybe your job doesn't have one, depending on where you work, you know, the facilities
that you're going to work at.
But having it at home, I'm telling you, it really raises the quality of life.
I think kin set it best.
Folks, if it's an engineering issue, we can solve it.
And how we used to engineer this issue would be, we'd go out in the front yard, you
drop your shorts, and you'd have someone come out there with the water holes and fire
it at the affected area.
Now, you'd have to be very careful in doing this because if you accidentally left that
holes uncoiled out in the yard during the summertime, especially where the sun is beaming
down on that hose is basically boiling the water inside the holes.
So that first blast of water that comes out of there when it hits the affected area,
the rapid change in temperature is going to throw you to the ground and cause you to roll
around for a bit, right?
You're going to perform the old stop drop and roll, maybe even a bit of the flounder.
Now, after a statement like that, here's another statement that kin has made that also
proves true.
You don't have to be aging us to submit a quick show.
Yes, so back on topic here, once you've got a day and you're using it, you're probably
wondering, okay, if you're spraying all this water, you're going to have to dry off.
There are different methods for this.
I just use disposable wipes or what you call them, flushable wipes or whatever.
I know that some people talk about using the cloths.
I don't do that because that comes with more cleanup that I'm not prepared for.
If I were single and I could actually manage that system, then yes, I would because I think
it is a more sustainable system.
However, I'm just being real with you.
I cannot manage that system at this time.
A man only has so much time, energy, and resources, and you have to spend all of them the best
you can before it's all over.
I've opted out of the cloth method and just went for the disposable wipes, you know,
the what you call a wet wipes or whatever.
Now, I mentioned that there are some other things you can do.
Is this a psyllium husk or psyllium fiber, you know, fiber supplements that you can use
to make your diet a little bit better?
So if you're having an issue where I want to try to clean this topic up as best as possible,
so when you go to the laboratory and you're looking to deliver a package, and I'm speaking
for myself here, of course, everybody's body is different, right?
Everybody is different.
So your mileage may vary, but you're looking to deliver a package.
And what I mean by that is, you know, defecate.
Things need to be simple so that way you can be done with it, get the job done, clean
up and be out of there.
Depending on your diet, if you don't have enough fiber and other things, it may not be
as simple as it should be.
I use metamusele, it has a psyllium fiber in it.
And for me, this acts as two things, somewhat of a bonding agent to where when you go to
deliver the package, it is a much more uniform package, like a neat uniform package.
So that way, for instance, your intake when you eat example, if you were to eat, and
I know I'm oversimplifying here, but if you were to eat five ounces of food, you expect
to expel as close to that as possible.
So the package should be one uniform package as close to that as possible.
Problems occur when it's not as simple as that.
So the bonding that this provides me is you get that neat uniform package.
You expel and you're, you're clean up and you're done.
That's what it provides for me.
Now, some people may have a different experience.
I cannot offer you any information because I am not a doctor.
And even if I was, I am not your doctor.
But it's an over-the-counter thing you can get, metamusele, or any of the, I even posted
some links for the knockoff brands because I'll use anything that's on sale, right?
I have no problem with generics.
So there's Walmart brand, Sam's Club brand, whatever.
They sell just the basic psyllium fiber capsules.
I'll get those for on the go as well.
I prefer the powder with the metamusele one.
It's a finer powder.
So when you mix it like if you use a blender bottle where you shake it up inside the bottle,
it'll blend a lot better with less water than metamusele brand will.
If you use the off brands, it's a little bit more grittier like sand almost.
So you want to use a little bit more water with it.
But I've been using it for years now, so I'm fine.
They recommend eight ounces of water for, I think, depending on which one you get, some
of them is like two teaspoons or something like that or maybe two tablespoons.
I think it is.
And they have instructions for it.
If you want to do the cholesterol improvement diet, it's the full two tablespoons.
But if not, if you just want a little bit of additional fiber in your diet, you can
use one tablespoon.
But the instructions are printed on the containers.
You figure it out from there.
Now it says it gives me two things.
The first one is that you get the cleaner package or the the neater package.
The second thing is that along with that neater package, there's less cleanup because
there's less left behind to create a problem for you.
So even if you did not have a bidet or let me speak for myself here.
Even before I got the bidet, I noticed that there was just a better, more efficient cleanup
process by including the metamusule in my diet.
Now I would still get the bidet no matter what, you know, even with the metamusule being
as great as it is, the bidet is just hands down the best.
So the combination of adding the psyllium fiber to the diet is going to just, I think overall
long-term improve your digestion.
It also helps with a bit of keeping things regular, you know what I mean?
You're giving your body a nice time that you can work with.
That's important if you're on the road because a lot of times, me personally, I can't speak
for every driver out there, but I eat a lot of the same things like I eat wraps non-stop.
It's always a wrap.
It's always a turkey wrap, you know, from time to time I will, I will switch up and
I'll get like an Italian wrap, but it's always a turkey wrap.
That's just what I do because I know it's not going to give me any problems.
And I guess because I've been doing it for so many years, I never really get tired of
it because I don't really consider it food, food.
It's like that thing I know I can do without having an emergency on the road.
You know what I mean?
That emergency can really change your mind.
You'll forget all about the monotony of eating the same thing, right?
You know, when you do that for too long, like before I got on the road, eating the same
thing would have, it'll make the food taste like cardboard after a while.
Like you're just eating cardboard so it has no taste and it just, you know, you can't
really enjoy it.
But once you've had a couple of issues and there are no facilities you can reach, you learn
how to appreciate that cardboard.
So there it is, you can, I guess you can count the psyllium fiber, not necessarily the
metamusal brand of psyllium fiber, but any of the generics as, as kin would put it.
It is an amazing life hack.
Shout out to Ken Fallon.
And I'd like to just remind you that having a bad day is not going to solve all your problems.
If you notice that you're having issues in this area, you really should consult your primary
care physician because as a wise man once said, to he who has a hammer of the whole world
appears as a nail.
And as I imagine, we could convert that to meaning in this particular situation to
he who has the affected area should clean it with a hammer.
No wait, no, no, that's, that's not the right way.
You know what, I'll just leave that part alone now.
Chances are I'm not going to get it right any time soon, but maybe you can correct us
on how you take care of the affected area.
Do a show.
Tell us all about it or as much as what you're comfortable with.
If you use a bad day, you know, what brand of a day you use, as you heard with me, I
use the Tushy brand or if you prefer to, you know, do it like a horse and just go as
you walk or whatever, whatever situation you have there, you know, maybe you've tried
a bad day and it wasn't for you.
So if you're a traveler, which, you know, I, I wouldn't exactly call myself a traveler,
but we have had shows done on over landing and if you're, if you're an over road trucker,
I suppose that would count as over landing.
Do you use like a, a, a bad day bottle?
They have the portable version of the bad day.
It's called a bad day bottle.
I also have that in my operator's kit, but um, you know, what do you have?
What do you use?
What do you prefer to use?
Have you visited other countries and, and have you experienced different things there as
far as, you know, bad days and, and other toilet related things?
Let us know.
And you don't have to be a man to let us know, you know, I imagine there's at least one
woman out there somewhere willing to talk about it.
And it might, it from, from the women that I have spoken with who were not interested
in coming on the show and talking about it.
I can't imagine why, um, the, they, uh, did not care for a bad day.
Now some of you, I'm not saying who might consider them to be backwood savages for thinking
that way, but I'm not going to agree with you on that.
I'll say to each their own, and then I'll end the show here.
So leave a comment, I'd prefer a show, but you're welcome to do whatever is comfortable
for you.
I'm some guy on the internet, and I'm out here to he who has a hammer of the whole world
appears as the affected area.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
