Episode: 4393
Title: HPR4393: Journal like you mean it.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4393/hpr4393.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:09:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4393 for Wednesday the 4th of June 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Journal Like You Mean It.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 31 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Escodi talks about journaling with Bujo, the bullet journal method.
Hey everybody.
Welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
This is going to be an update to the journaling journey.
So from my journal, I'm using the Staples brand ARC disc bound notebook system.
It's the junior size with the 1 inch disc, all black leather.
I started off using line paper, but then I switched to the dot grid, or yeah, the dot
grid, bullet grid, same thing.
With the bullet grid paper, I used the 100 GSM weight.
I ordered it from Amazon, 8 and a half by 11 sheets, and then what you do is you turn
them on landscape mode, and then you cut them right down the middle.
That gives you two sheets for the junior size, this bound notebook, or at least for this
ARC brand anyways.
I think it also works the same for, I think, Happy Planner calls theirs the classic size
or whatever, but it's like the same thing.
They just, you know, branding, App Store Play Store.
Am I right?
Yeah, but I use the router carol bullet journaling method.
There were links down in the show notes to all of this, and we got me wanting to do an
update here was the show by Brian in Ohio.
He did a show HPR 2415, the bullet journaling to org mode, where he discussed a little bit
about his use of bullet journals, and how he switched over to a digital journal just
using EMAX org mode.
He also learned his bullet journaling style from writer carol.
Also in his show, he mentioned that he had a little trouble with the, what was it called?
The monthly log.
Yes, so I have some links down below, you can check it out and see, you know, what, what
these terms get a visual for these terms that I'm using.
Right, so I modified the monthly log.
Instead of using two sheets to cover one month, I can actually put two months on one sheet
using the same system that writer uses with the number that represents that day at a month,
as well as the letter, so M for Monday, T for Tuesday, et cetera.
I have a custom key down at the bottom representing events that need to take place on those dates,
because I mean, most of the things in my life are repetitive, so they keep happening appointments,
these that tiny human is not in school due to holidays and things of that nature, you
know, the usual stuff.
And if there's anything new, say for instance, SO learns that there's a petting zoo happening
wherever and wants to go to take tiny human, well, that's just a new event.
I just slapped that down in there and, you know, I had a quick note beside it and there
you go.
So I don't need to use the future log as much, I'm going to shrink my next year's future
log down so that way I can save a few sheets of paper with that, but the monthly log does
a lot for me.
The daily log is what I work a lot of and here's the thing.
I have a notebook, which is a small notebook that I made myself, I use blank index cards,
and then I have a, you know, I made a custom little case for it and everything.
I'll probably try to take a picture and put it in there if I remember.
And that's something I can carry on the go because it fits in my pocket.
The idea of bringing my actual journal with all of the things that I have in it, because
remember the journal was not encrypted, it's right, it's right out in the open.
And there's some people that have no problem with just looking through your journal, right?
So I don't bring it out everywhere I go.
I just have my little notebook that can fit in my pocket.
I take tons of notes throughout the day and when I get back home, you know, update them
in the journal.
Also I have my journal time that I like to do first thing in the morning when I wake up.
I have a time that I get up first thing in the morning when SO and the tiny human are
still asleep.
So inside the place is nice and quiet.
I have my Zen Hour.
First I get my coffee and everything let my system wake up and I'm ready to go.
I have my Zen Hour where I sit down with my journal.
I listen to some low five and I just get caught up everything in the journal, get my plans
out.
I can go over what hadn't been done yet, you know, what event that I needed to skip over.
If I'm in a bad mood, that's another thing.
I track moods.
I track events to do less everything in my journal like it just, it has too much information
in it for me to just carry out and possibly lose or somebody just picks up and starts
going through, you know, there's no account numbers or anything like that in it, but still
it's super personal.
I don't want anybody just going, oh, I thought it was a book.
I just thought, you know, no, yeah, but I track my mood in there as well.
And what that has done for me is it allowed me to stay even.
So when things were to like right now, things are good in a couple of weeks from now,
and I might start feeling terrible.
My mood may go way down.
I may be able to track that real easily along with a couple of other things.
So you know how unless you have the permission system, I forget what it's called, they give
it a name for that.
The numbers that they use in permissions, you know, the seven, seven, seven for read,
write, and execute for both user group and world.
I thought about using something very, very close to that, but I had to expand it out just
a little bit more because it could be recognized as the wrong things.
Or if I only use say, for instance, four digits, it might be confused with time.
If I used five digits, it might be confused with like a zip code or something, right?
So I had to expand it out to six numbers.
And his represents like the first two numbers in this six digit string or six digit number.
The first two starting from left to right starts with the zero always.
And it is followed by a zero one or two that represents standard in.
So if I do a zero zero, that means I didn't need anything zero one, I had a small meal,
you know, something, a, you know, bagel or something, zero two, I actually had a meal.
The next two numbers starts with a one followed by a zero one or two that standard out.
You know what the one and two should be, right?
What goes in eventually goes out.
So now the last two that's mood starts with a zero.
And it can be a zero after that like the next digit can be a zero.
So zero zero, which is good.
I'm on top.
Shiny side up, zero one, you know, nothing to write home about, but not bad either zero
two.
I need to stop and figure out what's going wrong, right?
Like I need to, I need to make time to review the past what, you know, however many days
and figure out why I'm feeling this way.
So I start off each day with a mood string.
The six digit number that I just fell out to you, you know, however I feel or whatever.
And I can track other things as well.
So throughout the day as well, I have a meal, a quick sandwich or whatever, I can quickly
do a quick mood check.
And that way, you know, when I get home, copy all that over to the journal, I'm fine
now, but two weeks from now and I'm no longer fine.
I can track it back to when my mood started to go down in the events surrounding the
mood going down.
One of the things I usually end up seeing, one I don't get enough for my Zen hours in
the morning.
So I'm usually, you know, hop and straight out of bed and having to deal with S.O. and
tiny human and everything else going on with no time to just, you know, prepare myself
for all the noise, two, and this is a big one right here.
They usually cause my mood to go down quickly.
S.O. does not plan for anything feels, that's what it feels like anyway.
You know, she'll just throw some 11th hour and that's what I call them in my journal.
I call them 11th hours.
She'll just throw some 11th hour task right into my plans and now I have to tackle it.
So it'll be like, she's got a managed tiny human for, you know, physical for school
or something.
Just last minute to tell me, oh, you got to do it now.
Like what?
Yeah.
Yeah, you got to do it.
And it's in the morning, six a.m. or some crap, like you just, you know, here we are
getting ready to go to bed and you're just telling me this.
So yeah, I normally, I'll find that there's like one or two many of those 11th hours getting
tossed in my way and it just disrupts so many plans.
So many things have to just be, you know, on a fly, shifted around to accommodate these
11th hours that I'm being hit with.
And that's, that's one of the ways I'm able to track my mood just falling, falling apart
quick.
So immediately time to have a sit down.
I need to make clear, the next one you throw in my direction will fall.
I'm not catching it, you understand?
It's going to fall and you're going to be responsible for it.
So that's one of the benefits of being able to track your mood in your journal.
Like you can really keep up with your own mental health.
And here's the thing, you don't have to guess and try and figure out because when you're
already stressed out and you're trying to trace back whatever events that led to the
stress, it's very difficult to do it with your thoughts sort of floating around in your
head.
But when they're structured on the sheet of paper, man, you have a log, right?
The same way how you can check your systems log, see all the different events and things
that happening on your systems where you're doing roughly the same thing, but with, with
yourself.
So it's a fantastic thing to do.
Another thing that I'll notice before, you know, mood changes toward a negative.
The, the, the planned events versus logged events.
So when I'm taking notes or marking tasks that either need to be completed or have been
uncompleted, followed by events that are, you know, that have been brought to my attention.
When I'm marking all these things, I like to put a time at the time that I, you know,
learned about them.
Or if I made a plan to do a thing, I'll write that down in my notebook with a time.
And what I was doing before was I would put a period before the time marking that I have
planned this out.
This is a thing that I, I know I want to accomplish and I'm making time for it from now.
But if it's just something that I had to take care of, and maybe I've already done it,
but I didn't get a chance to mark it down right when I completed the task.
So when I get the time and I marked it down, that's just a log of me completing a task,
right?
So you have your planned and your log, and I use a dot before the time for planned, a
dot after the time representing, I'm just logging something completed.
I stopped doing it that way because I keep forgetting to put the dot in there and then
I have to go back and put the dot in and it, it looked weird.
So I figured like, okay, when I write the time, I'll just use an L for log or a P for
planned immediately after the time, right?
So 10, 10 P. That's me planning this task or event or whatever it is.
Then you trace back for a mood check and you start noticing that you've been doing
less planning, just more logging.
Many you're not getting ahead now, right?
Constantly logging means you've just been acting with less plans.
So that's going to catch up to you after a while.
You need to stop and plan more so that's why I'm mentioning to you when you can look
through.
You don't want to see that like, you know, the last three or four days, I haven't really
planned anything.
I've just been, you know, I've been working on autopilot and just logging things.
So I really need to stop and get my Zan Hour and plan more.
Now I really don't do any drawing or anything like I don't do draw boxes and I don't do
a whole lot of highlighting or any of that, especially none of the crap you'll see content
creators do with the washi tape and all the other just too busy for me.
I will do a type of sand text highlighting where I have multiple pins.
Now I'm firmly in the big champ, just I've been using big pins for years.
Currently I'm carrying around some big round sticks, blue and black.
Also have big crystals.
I have the big crystal bolts.
Those are what I use for the color.
So whenever I need to write a word in a different color so that it stands out, I usually
use the big crystal bold or sometimes I'll just use the black just so I'm writing in
black ink now.
But this next word I'm going to write with the bold ink so that it will stand out without
being a different color because you can see that it's just thicker.
So the ability to go back through your journal, using it like a log, identifying these sort
of things and this may not be for you rather, you may not need to get so detailed.
But for me, this helped me out of some very difficult times because when you're feeling
bad, you don't want to feel that way and it's very, it would be very nice if you had
a way out, right?
Like an easy logical way out, you know what I'm saying?
If you could just see where things were falling apart and discover a pattern and get out
of it, just the discovery alone immediately, like bumps, bumps, you're moved in the positive
direction, right?
Like so it's like, oh my god, I found it out.
So I'm automatically feeling better, go get some coffee.
You know, we're gold now, we're back in the shiny side up.
Wonderful.
Yes, so we got the big round steaks, big crystals, big crystal bowls.
I like the big soft meds as well.
I think that is like the strikes are really good balance.
I have a problem with clicky pans, you know, the retractables.
They seem to wake in the inner, you know, the inner child in human beings.
So if you ever leave a retractable pen around, some jerk is going to pick it up and start
clicking it repeatedly, making a ton of racket with it.
And I think that's why I started using pins with a cap on it, right?
If you ever lend a pen and somebody just walks away with it, at least it's a pen with
a cap.
They can't go around clicking it and making a ton of racket, but the saw feel, and again,
all of these are going to be down in the show notes.
They're so good, they're really good, nice and slim.
They come with a reasonable grip on them with a grip isn't too flared out to where it's
like this super huge bulky part down there.
It's like a nice balance, got a nice convenient clip on it so you can hang it on a shirt pocket.
I actually have a pocket protector, I used to use the plastic ones, but after a few months
they'd get like really old, the plastic will get hard, they'll start to rip.
So I switched over to a leather pocket protector and it is really nice.
But then our uniforms change and I didn't have a place to put the shirt pocket anymore
to put the pins in there, so yeah.
I don't know where the nerd came from, I think it's probably just from movies, right?
Some show or movie depicted a human being with a pocket protector as a nerd so that people
just started saying it.
I don't care, I love my pocket protector, it's awesome.
Back to the pins, the polygraphs.
So another good pen man, I don't like to use gel pins, but I must say the unibossed
ball signal 207, the 7mm one, I think you can also get them in a 0.7mm is the one that
I normally use, but I think you can also get them in a 0.5mm.
These pins are balanced so well, but they're all plastic, you can get refills for them,
which is another thing that they have over the bigs with the bigs there are no refills.
So that's, I kind of want to move away from the bigs for that reason, right, because
it's like every time you burn out a pen it's like you got to throw it in a trash.
Why I can't especially for the one that I just mentioned, the soft feel, like if I can
get refills for the soft feel, like that would be my ideal pen.
And if it didn't click when you used a retractable button on the top, but I guess that's for
every retractable, right, they anyways, back to the unibossed ball, you can get refills
for these, but with that plastic body, if they've made it in like an aluminum body, I guess
there would be the barrel.
The tool seven is just wonderful, it has a proper thickness, so like I have a big hand.
I think the smallest glove I can wear is a 2x, so it, you know, often with pins, it
feels like I'm using a baseball glove to write with a toothpick or something, right, it
just is terrible use it, so these pins, they have a proper thickness for a large hand
and they just feel great built in rubber grip on them and it's textured.
So it's, it's a really nice device, but with it being plastic, it's gone up.
You can't keep it for long.
Plus is gel and I am not switching to a gel pen.
Uniboss also makes another gel pen.
Yeah, it's, it's the uniboss roller, roller ball pen, I know that sounds weird, but it's
also a gel based pen, 0.7 millimeter, so a fine point.
They're also refillable and they, they come with a cap, so no retractable.
And they write so well, those are like some of the only gel pens that I make an exception
for.
And the ink, the ink doesn't seem to, you know, it didn't have a long dry time, but
it's still gel, so it has a dry time.
You can't just shut the book after you get through writing within that, you know, in
a journal, I just, I can't be bothered, I can't.
Another pen that I know people like, I don't use them personally, but I know people who
really love the G2, so the pilot G2's, I think those are also refillable.
But again, you know, with that plastic body, you're just, you're just, just not for me.
I would love to try to find out a way to get refills for the big soft feel.
If I could do that, like, oh man, like, this is just ideal, just get blue, black and red.
Oh, these pens, they're not as thick, but somehow this balance is very nice.
And it's all light too, so they don't even have to be metal.
They don't feel as flimsy, like you can bend them in everything and they don't feel
like they're just going to snap and have, so they feel a little, a little durable.
So what I'm, what I'm switching to now, and I have made the attempt about maybe five
times in my life, this time I actually got it working and I'll tell you how I'm switching
to the zebra F301 retractable, that the convenient clip on it, it does have a plastic grip.
The grip does not protrude outward from the body, so it's, it's slim and you get that
texture as you're bringing your hand across the grip, the grip is the only plastic part
of the, the body.
So you separate the, I don't know what that, the comb that covers the nib, the, the point
or whatever, the grip separates that from the rest of the body.
It's a nice pen and it writes so well, 0.7 millimeter.
I have used them numerous times and because there's an aluminum body, it's so durable
meant like, oh, so good.
I've only ever broken one of these and it took some extreme abuse to, to break it.
So I really want to just use these pens, the Zebra 301's, so nice for journaling, so
nice.
Plus they also bring out the contracts very well whenever I'm using my bold bit crystals
with the Zebra, so you know, you have your nice 0.7 for most of your syntax, and then
you just get that bold that hits right after it, so good.
But again, it really does feel like I'm trying to write with a toothpick, it's so small.
So tiny human is learning about writing and all of that stuff and I was talking to her
teachers and the teachers were telling us that, you know, she has a little bit of trouble
with her, what do you call it, the tripod grip, so holding the pen in the tripod grip.
And you know, I went and watched some videos and things and I read some articles.
One of the things we learned is what might help them out.
If your kid has any sort of issues holding the pen, it could be, you know, ability wise
or just because their hands are so small, whatever, you can use those pen grips, the universal
pen grips.
So I went to Walmart and just got to, I forgot how many coming to pack, like maybe 20 or
something for three bucks and they also have the other pen grip that has the assisted wings
or whatever on them, so you can put like your index finger or thumb inside that little
the wing piece and yeah, it helps you easily get your tripod grip and begin writing.
So I thought, you know, even though these things, they do make it look like your child
where you're using it, you know, not the one with the wing on it, I'm looking at the
other one that's just like, I guess it's a silicone, I think that's what it's made out
of.
So I got one of those and I put it on my zebra and holy smokes because it's so nice
and thick on the zebra.
I can actually hold the thing and rightly edit all so good, so good.
So now I'm switching to zebras.
I'm going to go grab some blue ink zebras as well because I tried using the universal
pen grips on my big round sticks because again, more ink, but because the round sticks carry
a cap and it is not a retractable, basically, you just got a sharp object that you're carrying
around now and I, you know, no, so I'm going to go ahead and get the zebra blues.
I have multiple zebra blacks, I'll get the blues tomorrow, I'll get a two pack from
Staples or something and there you go, I have my blue and my black ink for everyday writing
using the zebras.
I'm going to make, I got more of these things that I put on there, I gave her all the pink
and the red and the yellows and I took the blues and greens of the universal pen grips.
So yeah, I'm going to put the end, boy, once you put them on, they, you hurt yourself trying
to get it off.
Yeah, you will, you will do some damage.
So having a pen that you can refill once you put that thing on there is definitely beneficial
with the zebras.
They're refillable.
I can also grab the refills at Staples.
So yeah, it's win-win.
I think I could probably even get them from Walmart, I'm not sure, but yeah, win-win.
I'm going to be switching to the zebras for my everyday writing.
I mean, big has served me well.
I'm going to keep my big crystal bold for my sand text highlighting because those are
my color pens.
But when they, when they run down, I'll let my door to have them, you know, once they're
once I've then burned them to about a quarter left for their use.
And it's not always all of them.
What happens is the ones that I use the most will get burned down today and I'll just
have like the, the pink and the lime green or whatever, which never gets really used.
Those, you know, I'll still be full.
I give them all to her and she can use them.
I've also tried the markers, but again, it's, I have some fine tip markers from Target.
I forgot what that brand is called.
It's a weird name.
It wanted to target brands and they work fairly well, but yeah, they kind of, they kind
of bulky.
When I put them into my pen case, you know, I just, nah, now another good thing, definitely
get dividers for your journal, dividers are really great.
So along the length of the journal, where you open it, you'll be able to see the dividers
to help you get to the different sections of your journal.
So I have a notes section in the journal where I can take quick notes and stuff like that
when I'm, when I'm actually home and using the journal directly, I like using my notebook
though.
My little handmade notebook because I can write fast and sloppy and that thing and it's
perfectly fine.
And then when I sit down with my journal, now I take my time and actually, you know, I
got nice table space and everything and actually write better in the journal.
So it's nice and neat now, but I still have a note section in there.
Sometimes when I'm reading a book or whatever, and that's another thing, that's another
thing.
I bought another book and I had to hide it.
I had sort of, my wife doesn't know that I bought a new book because, you know, kind
of had to, kind of had to agree not to do that.
You can only get the digital ones now because we're in that space, et cetera, et cetera.
But I bought a new one anyway and I felt like I robbed the bank.
I had to hide it under the seat in the car, you know, and walking around in the house with
my eyes, the size of baseballs trying to look natural.
Like a guilty of hell.
But yeah, when I'm sitting out and taking notes and things of that nature, it's really
nice to just be able to whip out the journal and get your notes down in there.
And whenever you have that moment, like I don't mind doing those kind of notes on my
notepad, but the notepad is meant to be more disposable, right?
As I fill those pages up after about a week or so, I can just toss them in the shredder.
And, you know, I'm good.
But the journal, I actually archive those.
And it's nice to just get back in that journal, see those notes from the thing, you know,
like when I was studying system D and I needed to figure out, oh, what part of this?
You know, I can actually just hop right back in my journal real quick, go straight to
the notes that I was looking at.
But I'm about to be good to go.
So if you're not journaling, these are just some very good reasons why you should make
sure feel better.
Or for me, anyways, these are your knowledge, my very, especially when you're new to it,
you're not going to really feel it right away.
You're probably not even going to know if you're doing it right, like is this supposed
to be right?
Like, you know, you could probably feel like you're doing additional work for no reason.
And I encourage more men to journal as a man, if you're not journaling, you are missing
out on so many benefits.
Let me tell you, I get it.
You can juggle a lot in your head and just just remember and do things, but trust me,
whenever some things fall through the cracks, easily being able to pick them up and schedule
them done or just, you know, delegate it else where it gets somebody else to do it.
And, you know, track it all, man, it's so good.
Once you get into the swing of it and you have a system like the bullet journaling system,
that's what makes it feels like a superpower.
Learning that there's a system out there that lets you get it done fast, right?
You don't have to sit there and do a whole too much drawing again.
Those some of those other youth, especially the women, the YouTubers, yeah.
If you see their style of doing it, man, they put on a show with it, but writer, he demonstrates
that look, man, quick and easy.
Just get the basics down and start putting information in there and you're good to go.
All right.
So if you guys got any journaling techniques, please come here and share them.
Let us know.
Let us know what benefits you get out of it because hopefully I have just given someone
the tool they needed to start, you know, taking more control in their life.
If so, you're welcome and share your results.
Let other people know so that way, you know, come here, do a show, let everybody else know
or if you've been journaling for years, like I imagine a hookah, I would love to hear
about hookah's method because he's done a ton of traveling and everything and he gives
us, you know, his experiences in the form of shows and he pulls a lot of that information
back from, you know, notes that he's taken over the years.
So I imagine a hookah, you know, he wakes up, the butler comes in, brings him his robe, brings
him his journaling slippers, you know, have the orchestra come in and play some nice
soft music for them.
They bring him his morning tea or coffee, you know, whatever he wants and, you know, they
have everything all laid out for him and now obviously it may not be so extravagant
and your process doesn't need to be, you know, you don't need to have this long-winded
process for journaling or getting yourself prepared or anything.
Just sit down and get it out of your head onto the paper and you're good to go.
But I'd really love to hear a hookah's process.
If he's already done a show on it, you know what, that's what I'm going to look for right
after this.
I was listening to one, never mind, I'm not going to get into any more of that.
What's your guys in the next episode?
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our sync.net.
On the Sledoise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0
International License.
