Episode: 4306
Title: HPR4306: HPR Community News for January 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4306/hpr4306.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:48:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4306 from Monday the 3rd of February 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for January 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 106 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Kevi, Eskody, and can talk about shows released and comments posted in
January 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today's episode is HBR Community News for January 2025.
So happy new year to everybody.
Joining me today is Kevi from Scotland.
Hello hello.
So after getting fired at the end of last year, I was put back for this year.
Great stuff.
We were desperate, Kevi, we were desperate.
Well clearly, if you brought me back, you must be desperate.
Yeah.
Well, the requirements for the co-host is apparently must be brought living in Scotland.
So here we go.
So for those of you who don't know, Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast that this
year will be running for 20 years, believe it or not, 20 years.
We are a community, which means all the shows are contributed by random people very much,
in fact, identical to the people who you see in the mirror in the morning.
Yes, you.
So if you have had trouble fulfilling your new year's resolutions for previous years,
there's a real simple one that you can do.
And that is take one hour in the coming year, one hour, recording a show for HBR.
Here's how it goes.
You go to your phone or your laptop or your device.
If you don't have a device for recording, please email admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
And we have a network, a network of people around the world who will see that a recording
device makes its way to you.
One said recording device, press record, ideally, we have highest pitch rate or whatever
that you can get highest, the best format that you can get and go, hello, my name is,
into your name.
I got into tech, blah, blah, blah, and here's my story.
Continue to talk.
Keep it to around half an hour or something, press stop, go to the web page and upload it.
As a new host, you pick the first available slot on the upload page, first available slot,
enter your email address, send you an email, click on that link, fill in the form, give
us an idea about your name, your handle and all that sort of stuff.
And then you attach the file and that's it.
You submitted your show.
You have completed your New Year's resolutions for 2025.
You have completed your bucket list.
You have become a podcaster and your name will go down in the, in the annals on the internet
archive when they're dusting over the researchers from alien lands come to dust off the internet
archives, they will find your disk and your episode will be the last remaining, the only
link that human civilization existed.
Think about it.
And the best of those doesn't matter how impressive their brushes are, it won't be able
to wipe that out.
So it is there for all time.
There for all time.
Excellent.
Are we selling this a bit too much perhaps?
It will be possibly, but that's a way, hey, we're going to start positive.
It's only going to go down in the lane anyway, so it will start positive.
Any of you, this show that you're listening to is where the janitors and there are quite
a few of us now.
The janitors get together to chat about and this show is actually not only to dentures,
but anybody who listens to the HVRS broadcast and basically can provide constructive feedback
on the episodes and gives you an idea of what's going on in the background.
And we're delighted to say that Dave has been, Dave Morris has been rowing this for years
and he is handing that over to some guy in the internet who stepped forward who is going
to do the show notes and all the ranging of time zones so that I don't have to send out
an email then send out a correcting email and a correcting email because I just can't
deal with time zones.
So that is good news.
Other good news, Kevin, if you can take that is that we do have a new host this month.
Absolutely.
Yes, always great to get new hosts, but this month we've got Iota who released episode
4296 crafting interpreters.
Cool.
Great stuff.
And there was some good feedback on that on the mastodons as well on the HVRS.
So in this show what we do is we want it to make sure that everybody gets some feedback
on their episodes.
This is particularly important.
This is the currency by which we pay our hosts because they're not going to pay it any
other way I can guarantee you that.
What?
Do you tell me my checks not in the post that's terrible?
0.00, you can 100% increase this year.
So we will go through some of the episodes, all of the episodes in fact and basically give
you our experiences with them.
So shall we start with episode 4283 and that was released on the first of January 2025
and it was totally bone repair.
This was by Mr. X and it was an episode where he had a walking his dog and he's got a
thing for a little bone-shaped thing which I imagine is on the collar of his or on the
chain where he keeps the doggy bags.
And if you're archiving this from the future, humans had pets and when those pets did
poopies, the humans had to pick up the poopies from the pets and put them in the bags.
Yes.
Okay.
Yes, that is actually totally true and just for a bit of context, a totally in Scotland
is usually some form, if you hear something totally, it's usually some form of connection
to said poopies.
Well now, I'm glad you're here.
That's why we give you the bonus this year.
And this show was one of the first shows that I put through the new, what you see is
what you get editor and the absolute heart attack because when I looked at the show notes,
the file was attached as a UU encoded data stream.
So the three images that are in there, UU encoded data stream.
So I spent hours upon hours going through this episode, not because there's anything
wrong with the episode, far from it is because we changed the workflow and it's starting
to get better now.
And we've had to change the workflow because previously Dave was doing one part of that
and then I was doing the other part.
But now what's trying to do is get it all into the one thing and add a lot more QA.
We have a lot of QA control that we do on it and I will be doing a show about that in
the future.
But that was this.
So let's go back to the show itself.
Basically he did a running repair on us and good listen show at us.
Absolutely.
Actually it was good to see you know and I weren't where we've kind of gone a bit
through our way.
You know when something breaks it's just all it's cheap, you know, throw it away.
It's nice to see some people actually repairing stuff because then the day we took you
okay it might be cheap but we don't need stuff ending up in landfill.
So the yeah it was nice to see that and it was also nice as well to see the fact that
we tried the first one and the first.
It kind of held for a wee while but then he said he knew himself.
It wouldn't hold regularly so we had to go back.
So problem solved.
You've got everything you need for a good life lesson in this.
Yeah, very good.
I echo that sentiment.
So great and nice to see the images because I would know if you were to hear I wouldn't
have a Q except for the fact that the word trolley seems to be multiple spellings and
also definitions, many other meanings I was unaware of until now around Scotland is
a local term for the act or product of defecation.
Yeah, but don't say it like that nobody's calling nobody to understand you.
Yeah.
Joby.
I exactly.
So I've picking up your joby wee hash.
Exactly.
Now the following day we had a show by myself which was with my HBR hat on.
The HBR developer information, a set of project principles for those wishing to contribute
code to the HBR project and the reason I did this is because HBR is dedicated to sharing
knowledge and it's not your typical software development project where the goal of the project
is the software, the goal of the software developed on HBR is actually just to make sure
that the shows are going out so we and we're such a long term project.
So like 20, 40, 20, 45 would be like, you know, another 20 years from now, 20 years of
a project, 20 years from now, what tools and utilities that we're using now will still
be around on 20, 45, these are the things that we as a HBR project need to think about.
So it's important I don't want people to have to join the project expecting one thing
and then it turns out to be something completely different.
So for that reason I wrote down all of these basically items of what we do and how we
do it.
Yeah, absolutely.
I know you gave us certainly a thought a bit of feedback, it's not feeding back, it's
some information, let's see, a bit of information there and yeah, actually I thought you explained
it pretty well, you know, it's the, you know, you can't be filing on when you developments
just because they're the thing of the time and then find out in a, you know, a couple
of years time, they're no longer maintained, oh, we can't even do anything with this.
Yeah, guarantee it will sport will end prior to you going on vacation or you know, so
yeah, that's a, that's a thing.
So the following day, no comments are not because, yeah, would be interesting to get some
comments on that, but yeah, following day, what's on my podcast player, which was a emergency
show, again, and what, for people who are not aware, if you're joining HBR for the first
time, what we have is we give people the option to put into the main queue so you can pick
your own slot, put more shows in, leave them two days, two weeks, so put in the show, jump
forward two weeks in the queue, put in your next show, et cetera.
If you're new, put it in straight away, but we also have the reserve queue for days where
the slots are not filled up, so some weeks, we might have four slots filled and then we
put in a reserve show and that's fine, but we want to make sure that we keep the reserve
queue quite full, and we also want people to contribute shows, so that's a big thing,
just contributing shows, so great.
About this show, this was another, no surprises from Houga, or podcasts that he likes,
anything jump out at you there?
Yeah, just, what actually I liked about was just the fact that he went on and about
the year, and you know, the timing as to what it is, because it was a reserve queue, obviously,
and just the fact that he was reminding himself as well as his listeners, that people
commented about how many shows he listens to, over all the times they've heard, and he's
saying, yeah, but remember, I don't listen to every single one from the times I first
started recording HPR, because, you know, air interest change, even our tastes change,
you know what I mean, what I like now isn't the same as what I was listening to, let's
say, 10 years ago.
There we have it.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, and it's good actually to have these, if nothing else, as just for a bit of your
own memories, you know, because, I mean, when I think about it, it got me thinking about
some of the podcasts that I listened to, and I actually fired up an old home folder that
I've seen quite a few of those, and I was looking at my G-Podder stats, and I'm going,
I'd forgotten them at half of these podcasts, they don't exist anymore, but, you know,
it's something I hadn't even thought about in years.
Yeah, and if people want to go looking at their old media players, we're looking for, stay
with a techie episode 66 is missing.
If you have a copy of that, that would be gold to have.
Oh, yes, absolutely.
And who knows?
Maybe somebody listening might have that stored somewhere on an old hard drive, something
like that.
Absolutely.
But, yeah, I mean, the hookahs current podcasts, they do tend to be sent to run one of three
things, our theme is to run.
At the moment, yeah.
We'll have to.
Yes, at the moment.
We'll have to wait until next year to see if that changes.
I mean, absolutely.
Although, I'm actually going to give him a call out.
He's gone over a lot of the doctor who, and I have to confess, it's never something
I'll show you to.
He's actually got me going right the way back to the very start episode one, and I'm
even listening through the shows which were lost, but they have the sound track, and
they're still like every three seconds kind of changing.
So I've gotten right back into the very start.
I have a tone on the list to do that very, very thing myself, very same thing myself.
Oh, cool.
Good.
Yeah, funny.
One piece of advice I'd give though, if you want to do that, to the listeners as well,
is don't go to like to the BBCI player or somewhere.
I'm just hit play because they have big gaps in them.
So find what I've got is I'm going to be like Wikipedia, all the list up.
And then I'm finding the missing ones and like on the internet, I can't even please
just look at that because that's the only place you'll find.
Yeah.
We personally don't know everything anyway because where I can, I prefer it on physical
media, if I can get it largely because then I can change the contrast to the colors and
adjust the speed and you know, it's just a more pleasant experience using your own media
control.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Okay, we'll move on.
HVR Community News for 2024, which was last month's show where we had one comment from
Kevin Dobryne and it was about a comment about Rita Med about the number of books that
Kevin had.
And he said, do you want to read this?
Actually.
Yep.
Yes, I did have that many books.
I did indeed have about 200 Asimov books at one time, but I have moved from dead tree
books to ebooks now.
I still have the science fiction books in the electronic form, but I have not replaced
the far more numerous science fact books.
But I created Asimov science fact books for turning me into a college professor, something
I did for a number of years before I moved into IT.
Cool.
Yeah, absolutely.
There.
Yeah, Asimov is certainly one that gets mentioned quite a bit from a hook, isn't it?
Yes, he has done a series on, I mean, what we were talking about was the science fiction
series that he's doing and he is going through the golden grade of science fiction writers
from the 50s and 60s.
So Asimov was there and he's just finished that series and he's now moving on to Art
City Clark.
If you're following the future feed at least.
Yep.
It's a little more good start to listen to, excellent.
So we had the next day, a chap called Kevin talking about scheduling recordings with
Cron and FF MPEG, and as soon as I heard this, Kevin, I was going, oooh, that's not going
to work.
Are you going to trouble with that?
Well, to be honest, actually, I was doing it for the hearing no.
I wasn't actually thinking about letting it run continuously, which was the reason for
the updated version, because I was thinking, wait a minute, when I go away from here, I
don't go for a day or two.
I go away for, you know, two, three weeks at a time.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So it's amazing how much just what I thought was going to be a week and a throw away series
ended up developing away, but I mean, this all came from playing localized music files
on the command line and I got quite a bit of feedback from this.
Yeah.
This, I have, I think, I told you on Masterdown that I intend to write my own response to
this and I have, but I kind of got distracted as well, doing other stuff, namely all the
HVIRSAF.
But maybe we should tell people what it is.
So a good friend of the show, Dan Lynch, who we've interviewed more than once and a podcast
for himself also has a weekly radio show, which is streamed live, and you wanted to
basically catch that stream, which you did on the command line, and then you thought,
hey, I'll chuck it into a cron job and have, you know, basically a recording that comes
out every time.
So you have one comment there, do you want to read that?
Yes, that's, well, actually two comments, so with my own yet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I just pretend that I had, I mean, Dan's, the stream for Dan Lynch's, the radio station
for Dan Lynch, operates from, I think it's, it's, it's some like, I don't want something
like that.
They have really quite obscure, they says in their stream, and it had quite a few characters,
odd characters in that weren't just bladers or numbers.
And of course, when I actually ran this, it semi-colon triggered an action from cron
and it didn't do it.
And I was like, oh, oh, Keisha, Keisha, forget that, that happened.
So what I've just put down is the URL, long URL, stream from the command line, failed
when using FFMPs, substitute this for, and it was, I just changed it for a tiny URL,
I just put that thing into a tiny URL, put in the tiny URL, that worked fine.
Perfect.
And Henrik Herman says, inspiring episode, this was an inspiring episode, Kevi, it's
a start, thought of when I can have to use it.
As you said, the computer must be turned on in order to have a schedule recording to
record.
It got me thinking of the turnmux app for Linux Android-based phones.
I have not tested it, but I think it might work to get this on the command line recording
to work on the phone.
Also the transistor app for Android phones was interesting.
I like the app after my first trials.
Well now, Kevi, if that is not a future episode, I, I, I insert with you, I, I, I, I, I, I,
insert with you, statement here, because my, my, just went blank, my, my own hat.
Heat my own hat, yes.
Well, actually, I took legacy with that.
The, and yeah, it's good to actually get feedback, because obviously, when you're going
on command line stuff, it tends to be a bit more mighty, you might think people might
hate this and turn off, but it's good to get feedback like that.
So although I will say, I actually didn't do this one on my desktop, for that plain
reason, it has to be on.
So I just installed FFM pilgrim at one of my pies and stuck it on.
So the, yeah, so it's just on a pie that's already on anyway.
That's what I'd recommend.
So otherwise, you're going to use up a heck of a lot of power.
And look who's just joined the party.
Some guy on the internet, some guy on the channel, free to talk, if you wish.
What's it's not a requirement to be fair to, to be fair to him.
He's actually been in since the start, but being very quiet.
Very good.
Very good.
So, Kevin, but this has actually brought up a lot of future episodes for me, I think,
relating to the best approaches to dealing with Chrome and, you know, time zones and emails
and stuff like that.
So I have, I have an episode and yes, I know I own myself a show.
Fine.
You've sent a card and you've sent it, you've sent it, you've sent it.
There you go.
The following day, we had, after much requesting us, Solas Spider, who joined us of large community
member and a recent HPR scripture, works as God's pantry food bank and gave us 25
years, I run down questions and answers, 25 years of his career.
And I don't know about you, but I loved this episode.
Well, actually, I loved it and I also felt like how depressing that this exists still
in the world, but I still loved the episode.
Absolutely.
It was, I mean, it's very sad that something in this day, and this day and age, some
like this is needed, especially when you think about this year, I'm out of free
waste.
I must be happening, especially in this half of the world, it's, but you know, it's,
it's amazing.
On a slight, a slight side note here, after releasing this episode, during the storm
day, when we were off, Peter's volunteered to take people around a tour of the facility
on a smartphone.
And if you ever get the chance, ask him and do it, it was phenomenal.
Honestly, it's, I, even from his descriptions of it, and I've spoken to him many times,
I couldn't get over this year's size of it.
It's huge.
Unbelievable.
Yeah, I mean, it's, it's definitely, and he was showing me like, even like the truck
base.
It was one or two.
It's like eight or nine truck base there.
I'm not a fool.
And then he was showing me the fridge.
Then he was walking through the freezer.
I mean, this freezer, you know, we, we've got the idea of a chest freezer being big.
You know, I, I'm pretty sure that this walking freezer is about the same size as probably
the physical size of the technical department building in the school.
Okay.
Shall we do some of the comments, but this got a lot of comments.
Oh, yeah.
No surprise there, though.
Malink says, God's food Patrick, really love the show.
Thank you for all the work you do.
And we've got one from Archer 72.
Thank you for this show.
Hi, Peter.
Thank you for creating this show.
I learned more than even the two times we conversion the hospital about this topic.
I wondered if Europe and surrounding nations have similar causes.
It would be interesting to think about that.
Archer 72, aka Mark Rice.
And Claudia M says, great episodes.
So this spider really enjoyed listening to this one on all the work that God's food
pantry does for the community and how you have been involved in it.
I know your, you've mentioned it to me and passing your master down.
So it was nice to hear all about it in detail.
Thanks again.
And then we had one by Kevin O'Brien, great show.
I really enjoyed hearing about God's pantry food bank.
My mother was involved in a food bank in a hometown of Skituet, Massachusetts.
I may have bitchered that sort of.
And even, and may even have been one of the people who started it.
I'm not sure since I hadn't moved out a few years before she did it.
Paul G says, great episode.
Thanks for sharing Peter.
When I hear a food bank, I think of operations in this neck of the wood.
So I am surprised and impressed to hear the size of God's pantry.
Thank you.
I believe food banks and high levels of social benefits are a reflection of poor government
and perhaps wrong priorities.
However, they fulfill an essential service for people who find themselves in certain
circumstances where there are no longer able to support themselves.
Thank you for your selfless service to the community in which you live.
And Peter responded to all these appreciation.
Thank you so much to Malink, Archer 72, Claudio M, Kevin O'Brien and Paul J for your comments.
It's good to be appreciated for the work we do supply the need of our food insecure neighbors.
On Friday the 24th January 2025, Kebi was off work available and so I gave him a personal
virtual tour of our new food bank facility location by Telegram video.
If anyone wants a similar tour, please inform me.
It would have been helpful if I read that comment before I read mine.
But yes, I would highly recommend it.
Very worth having a look at really really something amazing.
And the following day we had a show by some guy on the internet, obviously a very weird
and strange person.
Get him talking.
I don't know what will he brought noodle kicking him screaming to the table.
I hope not.
It didn't seem like he was doing so.
And it was a talk about salty zombies gaming community seven days to die.
Not as a gamer, I really did enjoy this and I getting a lot of insight into the gaming
community when Scottie talks to his gamer friends.
You kind of get a feeling for what is allowed and what's not allowed in the gaming community.
That's I'm not a gamer, that's everybody knows very well.
Well, hello, Ken.
Hi, hello, Scotty.
Good to meet you.
Good to meet you.
Happy New Year from one of the minions here at HBR.
Yes, bowed out.
But that.
Well, yes, that show we had a lot of fun making and I'm glad you enjoyed it.
Yeah, it was really I really liked it as well.
I mean, I am one of a game.
I'll lose seven days to die and know what a game I've played.
But it was actually interesting.
What I liked the fact was just the attitude of you, like you say, so many people want
to save, you know, the kind of yes, we're cozy to zombie survival game, but we're cozy
and safe inside our base.
Whereas you guys were like, no, we want to play this properly.
We want to go more hardcore.
I like that.
Yeah.
We're going to just some of these zombies attack you know, okay, not my thing, but you seem
to be doing it.
Yeah, we had a lot of fun trying to convince others to get involved with it and the surprise
on their face.
Well, we couldn't see their faces, but the attitude of their avatars when they arrived
at the location where they're supposed to be safe and comfortable.
That was the best of it all.
The panic, right?
You kind of feel it coming through the line.
I'm just picturing you should have had a guy they are already for with the dad's army
thing.
You know, Jonesy, don't panic, don't panic, don't panic, don't panic, don't panic,
don't panic.
I think that reference might be lost in our UK or US, possibly, possibly actually.
One of the note on that server though, I got into a bit of trouble recently.
I found a bug and the way we went about trying to, I guess, learn more about the bug so
that we can put in a ticket.
We went to the location where the bug was and of course, I found it, but then I created
sort of an issue.
The bug trapped me there.
So every time I log on it crashed the server.
Apparently, there were a couple of double doors up on this one POI.
That's a point of interest that I don't know how or why, but they just sort of spammed
open and shut.
If you go up on the roof of this POI and I'm assuming go anywhere near these doors where
they will activate this spamming behavior, it just crashes the server.
When I found it, I was trying to type in and form others, it crashed and now every time
I log back onto the server, I'm at that location so it continuously crashes and yeah, we created
a problem.
Oh, that's so good.
No, definitely not good.
You couldn't get to an admin to boot you out over the, are you responding in the same
place?
I'm continuously responding in the same place.
We contacted the admins and supposedly they rolled back the POI a few days or something
like that.
I'm not sure what the technique was, but apparently the issue happened in that backup that they
used so it was no good.
I'm told that my character got reset or something like that and then moved.
So hopefully I didn't lose all my personal stuff, but I'll try later on today and see
if there's a new development, but everybody on the discord, they're all giving me the
a little bit of grief over that.
Thanks, I'm young over there, but they're like, thanks Scotty for bringing down the house
on us again.
There's always one.
Trey says in the comments, say cheese, welcome, little, thank you for being on the podcast
to balance out some guy on the internet's insanity.
Now, what is the deal with all the cheese?
I thought Zombies did brings not cheese or are the allergic to slash repelled by cheese.
A particular type of cheese.
I have encountered some newberg cheese here that could drive off somebody hard for sure.
Thank you for such a cheesy episode, smiley face looking forward to the next one.
So there you go.
You heard it first from HPR, cheese, fiends, often as zombie invasions.
Good to know.
That's what I'll be telling my friends as I run the other way and saying, oh, you'll
be fine.
Here's some come there.
And more gaming stuff this time, the following day, playing Civilization 5, part 5, and this
is by Ahuka, who is going through computer strategy games.
This one basically talking about the idea of civics and how it's changed in a different
strategy in which to a different way to play Civilizations and a different approach to
take again, not being a gamer.
This was revealing to me about how you would do that and yeah, yeah, it's really good.
He was really thorough about this.
For anybody who's not really sure about it, it was essentially just think of like the first
one you do might be like the constitution of a country.
I mean, that's at the very early stages.
And then the next ones you do, it's, there is like a tech tree involved, but it's not
just about experience and earning points on local tech tree.
You have to do specific things.
So then like the instead of you can, you know, edit your constitution, but you've got
to unlock the parts to do it.
So it was really good.
And of course, as with a lot of these games, there's, there's effects, both positive and
negative.
You know, so for example, one that's coming off the top of my head, you know, if you
go for a military, like a style military control, then you're going to have discipline.
However, the neck and you know, things work more efficiently, but the knock on effects
are that you're going to have less happiness and your places are going to be, your place
is going to be more susceptible to uprising and rebels.
So like that kind of idea, yeah, that I love a hookah shows on civilization.
One of the things that if you're not a gamer, a lot of people think of it more linear.
You know, you have a path to go on and you just follow that path and you're hopefully
achieve success at the end of it.
What a hookah does is he points out all the different avenues that you can achieve success
and it's not just that meta gaming, like if you, if you are a gamer, you know what I'm
talking about, meta refers to his most effective technique available and what players would
do is min max that technique to achieve a victory, but it's an, it's a very weird way
of doing it.
A hookah's techniques, as he's explaining it is great for anyone who hasn't played the
game before, you're going to definitely enjoy it, even if you're not a gamer because in
the meta community, if you've ever heard someone talk about how they say, for instance,
have to go and capture this one character and bring them on your team because he has
these stats and then another guy who has these specific stats and that's going to gain
you access to this other, you know, region over here, et cetera.
That's kind of boring and it doesn't help you live the game.
You don't get immersed by that.
So if you listen to a hookah, you're going to get immersed and you're going to enjoy
the game.
Absolutely.
That's what I would recommend and I remember I wrote down on my notes was anybody who's
thinking about playing civilization for it.
I would say listen through to a hookah's series on it and you'll actually have already
before you even start playing, before you even click a mouse or anything, maybe before
you purchase a game, you're going to have an idea over, over, I like the idea, there's
a like the idea that you'll have a strategy built up rather than you're just sitting looking
going, um, what I do and that's one of the good things.
The guides aren't do this to win.
They are, you know, if you do this, you're going to have this consequences, you know,
not necessarily bad, but both bad and good.
So it allows you to have a strategy to your head so he's been really, he's been really
enjoyable.
I must admit, I really have enjoyed these.
Well, I'm glad that finally we have somebody here who understands games on his fear.
One thing I drew from it was that if you did buy this game, you could play it through
ones doing one strategy and then start again doing the next strategy and vice versa and
just keep going and keep going.
So you would get a lot more bang for your book, you know, essentially I've got five different
ways of playing the same game.
So I thought that was a, that was a good, a good way to get more value from money from
the game.
Yeah, that, that's fantastic with a lot of the older games that exists, a lot of the
newer games today.
They're trying to make it all these live services.
So where you don't get that replay ability because they want to build into micro transactions
and other things to try and ink what they call encourage you to spend more or whatever.
And then they claim that you have to spend more because they have to keep up the services
that require you to spend more.
So a hook is going over this game and as you've mentioned, the replay ability, I love older
games for that alone.
I've already won using brute force.
Now let me go back and try and win using diplomacy.
Yeah, absolutely.
And you know, they are such a depth that, you know, like you're saying, this is so any
of the other things.
Now, they're not interested in you playing a game, they're interested in you buying into
their series and all that problem that I see is, I'm going to see my own son, he now
and again does delve into things that I'm not so keen on.
But, you know, then he tells me, oh, no, they've shut down that community.
So the DLCs, which he paid for, which then turned out you had to join this community
to actually run no longer exists.
So you just wasted the money on the DLCs and don't even get me started on that nonsense.
And we look forward to your show on the topic in the future.
All right, guys, we've got to move on or we'll be stuck here all enjoyable though.
The following day, we had A.M. on the Nyquest prompt, which was another one by Lee and
another one that brought me, let's say, challenges to my upload script.
So what this was, very good because I also realized that Lee is studying for his amateur radio
license and anything that we can do to help you in this quest.
And I guarantee you that when I was studying for my foundation level, I was not defining
where forms in audacity, although it probably would have helped.
Yeah, I mean, this one sadly went a bit over my head.
And it's probably the same way you got lost in the last two game editions.
This one, I don't give it over my head.
But it was great to see him get involved in harm radio.
And also, I was just thinking this such encouragement for yourself.
I mean, he said that he did this after hearing you talk on the harm radio at Uncom.
So that's great to hear.
Yeah, this is good because I also used this, I submitted an article to the RSGB,
a Radio Society Agripperton, about like, during this, that's
Spectrum 24, and I'll count them hopefully.
They haven't got back to me yet.
Yeah, they seemed interested, but they haven't, I sent them the article here back, it was published.
But one of the things I did mention there was amateur radio guys should be going,
amateur radio clubs should go to freely open source events, because there's just a huge
potential pool of people who are interested in technical topics.
And oh, here's Ham Radio, new shiny thing that I can discover and play with and use.
But the show itself was actually quite good because it allowed you to see what's happening
with particular web forms and how you can combine two web forms together and what that actually
sounds like. And that's used all over the shop in radios, but it's also used in the telephone
network and all over the place, even on fiber optic cables and stuff. So nice show actually.
Well, and I really liked the way he did it in Audacity because not only can you see it with the
web form, but you can also hear it as well, which is important if you're doing a podcast, I guess.
Yes, that is true. And also it generated a couple of comments, one by a certain Mr Ken Fallon,
do you know who? Who said, new Ham news, new Ham news say, did I hear you saying that you're
going for the exam? Rachel, it explained a lot to me about the visualizations of web forms,
more of this type of thing. And this was followed by Paul J. Saint, thank you, highly great idea to
use Audacity to create the visualization. I have been playing with the frequencies in the
Nyquist prompt and like the appearance of the data displayed when using Maltzound, HSoS,
10,000 sound, HSoS, 200. Yeah, go check that out. You really want to quote that? Don't try and type that in.
This shows the envelope effect very clearly, I guess, with the frequency differences seen in
radio transmitters, receivers, this is even more pronounced, but I haven't tried to load these values
in. My other comment, beware, brackets enjoy, the functional programming rabbit hole. I started with
Clodger, then moved to Commonlisp and more recently a scheme, brackets, Guile, as well as using
Emaxlisp throughout. My use of the latter has improved significantly since I learned from the other
functional languages. Thanks for the show, Paul. And Paul, we look forward to episodes of each of those,
basic introduction to the 4i and do all of those. And Paul has also been served into the
Janichus channel. The Mupp of Office is winging his way to him as we speak. Oh, no, does he get his
initials on the mupp? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, with fine gold leaf.
Thanks. Do not do that on your mupps, guys. I'm not a janitor.
While you're here, pick up your mupp and follow me, say it again.
The following day, we had Firefox Adams. How to enhance the capabilities of Firefox, this is by
Rito. And it was a good episode because it's a good reminder that you can make stuff better
by adding in extensions. And I comment myself to this great tip, some great suggestions here.
And it's good to see that we have a huge overlap. I missed clear URL, but I installed it now. Can
I suggest consent or magic for the auto deny of consent forms? And I give a link.
And the next day, we had trade. Now let me start that again. And the next comment, we had trade.
Has it interpreted add-ons? Thank you for sharing this show. I very,
rarely install add-ons due to several being taken over by malicious actors. I will need to look
through the ones you and can recommend it. Scotty, do you want to do one, or? No. Sure. Yeah,
I've fished out my glasses just in case I got a... So I'm looking at Rito. That's it, Joe.
Starts with. Hi, Ken. Thank you for the reminder. It was my plan to mention in other shows of 2023,
of which to take some add-ons into my collection, these are, and it gives a couple of links there,
one from Ken and one from Archer. In regards to your suggestion of consent or magic,
in the settings of U-block origin, I haven't activated the cookie section. Or is it, wait,
is it haven't or have? I'm assuming have activated. Yeah. And he's talking about a couple of cookie
choices, easy list and ad guard. However, I use the chance to plug something new. Your local CDN,
it's a web browser extension that emulates consent delivery networks to improve the online privacy.
Some diagrams in the lower area of the website better understand localcdn.org. Cheers, Rito.
Yeah, I enjoyed this episode there, and I actually, I was thinking this probably
would be good if it would maybe even spawn a bunch of other episodes, because you know,
we all use different add-ons and things for a browser. And don't assume, of course, that everybody
knows about every other one. The only comment that I had, I'm having interested to have a look at
an answer for YouTube. I don't know that one. The biggest issue I've got with YouTube add-ons are
generally you've got to update them every day, because YouTube, Google just play whack-a-mole
with stuff. Any back ends to download and like that, they'll shut them down. So unless you're
willing to cut to update things daily, then I devoid YouTube plugins personally. And here,
some of his add-ons haven't been updated in a while, which would cause me a certain degree of
concern. Yeah, yeah, totally. Especially with something as important as your browser. There's
need to be updated, yeah. I should be more sure, because I haven't, I haven't, I don't really
understand what it does. So I sure that will be great to read over. Add it to the list.
Scotty, go ahead over. Yeah, the add-on thing is kind of funny. I recently, the other day started
learning some JavaScript script. I went on to, was it W3 schools, and that's where I'm learning it
from, because they talk about a lot of web standards and things of that nature. And I'm also
looking at Mozilla's documentation for building browser extensions. I'm only in the beginning
parts right now, because I'm still learning the language, so I haven't actually started constructing
other than the basic example that they give you in the beginning. I think it's called borderfire
or whatever. But yeah, so much of the web has turned to crap, and I think a lot of it is due to
JavaScript, but I want to be able to just tone that down with my own extension in some areas.
One of the places, pardon me, one of the places YouTube that you've mentioned earlier,
there's so much low-effort content being uploaded to the place. You have those people who,
they create channels that scrape, stack overflow, and then they just auto-generate millions of videos
based on that feed. And I want to be able to just have a simple extension that looks at how many
videos they have. If it's a number above, like, say, 10,000, just automatically remove them from
the feed, and maybe put them on a list or something so that way they never get loaded again,
but something simple. That would be interesting. And I would also be interested in your journey to
JavaScript, because it is something that I've told my list to learn and do. And now,
with the way you get it, there is some JavaScript entering my life. I was never a huge big fan of it,
but there are occasions where it is useful, I guess.
Yeah, so far, and this is the early days part of it. It does not appear to be difficult to actually
learn, like, to pick up on with the syntax, but, you know, actually using it's going to be a different
story. What I've learned on the W3 schools page, some of the examples that they give you are,
they talk about using the difference between cons and let for establishing a variable or an
identifier, whatever you want to call it. But when they then show you it in an example,
they revert back to using var for that global use. So I've noticed a couple of areas where they
kind of cheat to do the example from where they're teaching you. And I want to find a way to report
that. I'll include that in my journey, because it's also in my show notes, not my show notes,
but my local notes that I'm taking as I'm learning. Cool. And retail and self is joined.
It's a very out-of-the-world people we're talking about. So anyway, the next day we were talking,
he's just listening. Yes, you're going to have to tune in Monday, like everybody else to find out
what we said. So Henrik submitted a show on HTTRAC, which would be HTRAC website
copy or software. And he uses it to get a copy of his own website. I was actually, I commented,
great tip. I am shocked. I had not yet learned of this tool. I just took a snapshot of
free culture podcast and the work like a charm. Great suggestion. Thanks.
I absolutely love this show and want to start playing with it. But you know what really puts me
off, starting to play around with it is I don't want to end up risking spending a fortune on
drives, hard drives, because I could just see myself getting far too into this. You know, you
know, he's talking obviously about saving all the websites. And could you imagine like going to
somewhere like Jement or somebody like, oh, flip, that's huge. But it is, it actually is such a useful
tool. I've been using it for several other things, one of which might be the QA part of the HPR
website. So that when I post a show, I take a snapshot of what it looks like so that we can get
so that we have a copy of, okay, this is what the website is rendering for doing some of those
websites that just have loads of ads and crap on it. Just download the website and then read the
text from the local copy as opposed to the website. So I'm, I'm using it quite a lot. Haven't
often put anything together. But when I do, if it will be, there will be an episode maybe in 20
years time referring back to this one. I have to ask you, have you used Calibre's function
for this with the recipes? For two websites? Yes. Calibre as in the eReader function? Yes.
I have not, but that would be a good show. I have used what do you call it? The website automation
too. I can't find, I can't think of those. What's that? No, I didn't even know what did that,
but to be honest, I'm very basic in my Calibre being usage it is just purely like an ebook
organiser converter and readers. Celium, yes. I've used Celium quite a lot and also used
beautiful soup for Python. But there are that to your episodes list. There's Scotty.
Oh, the Calibre one? Please, yes. Okay. This is what happens on this show. You know, you just get
more and more episode requests as the longer you listen. The following day, we had scheduled all your
recordings from the command line, a bit of fine shooting by Kevin. It's not this glowing again.
Yeah, trying to, trying to scrape as much as possible out of every single episode.
Folks, this is why you need to come in. You need to start submission shows so we don't have to
listen to Kevin all the time. Absolutely. Yeah, this was actually in response to, hmm, I'm awake
quite of it. So I thought, yeah, I can't just, I know she thought, let's just have it, you know,
right over the old file. So well, that's two point and I'll record in the first one then if she's
going to be right over it. So yeah, so I just tweaked it a wee bit just so that the file names edited.
And of course, on the lemon show itself, I actually forgot that I percentage sign in
Cron actually has a separate function. So you've got to go and kill the function with a backslash.
So I, I actually did it and then realized I'm not re-recording the whole episode for that. So I was
very quickly messaging Ken to see edit these shoulders for me, please. No problem, no problem whatsoever.
But this did give me inspiration to do my own script, which isn't stable enough now to do a show
yet. So but when it is, I will. And I said, nice to see the progression. When I hear you say that
you have gone overwrite the file without specifying the dash-y option I thought I got disappointed
with that one myself a few times. I've written my own approach to this because who doesn't want to
hear Dan Lynch's pick and mix. Yes, I owe a show. Yes, although I do wish to point out other
recording things are available. Yeah, but what what what actually, what other things to record
are available. I think it was just a few people mentioned it, Dan posted a master on that he was
doing the show. And quite a few people, especially the other side of the pond, said, that's not
really very convenient. Where can we get it on catch up? And Dan looked and said, uh, we've no catch up.
Well, this is a good one because it makes you think about something else and it gave me some
topics where I have quite a lot of experience with FFMPEG after using it for the last 20 years or
15 years, more 20 years. On HPR, we do a lot of stuff with FFMPEG and we get burned. You know,
I come against a lot of the things, issues that you come across. So it was useful to make a show
on that sharing knowledge. And also I have, there are a few gotchas about using Chrome and tips
that I would like to share as well. So no harm to do to do a show on that. Absolutely. And the other
thing is if you especially haven't done anything in a while with Chrome, the annoying thing is a lot
of the documentation doesn't really focus on the, yeah, like those kind of odd details, let's say.
Exactly. Yeah. The gotchas. Yeah. Uh, quick, quick question for you. You're, I noticed your
file, well, not just a file name, the actual uh, directories as well, you use a camel case
and underscores. Is that, is that a typical thing? Is that just for the example?
Hey, give me a sec. I've actually closed that one. So bear mine. Two sex. Then I tend to use
underscores. Yes, that's just me. I, I say it will underscores. I don't like seeing, I think
half the problem is that's a personal thing purely because I'm dyslexic and I don't like seeing
big long lettering together if it's not a word. Oh, okay. Because when I saw the both the techniques,
both the, um, with the numbers, I see the, uh, for date for the date function there, you got the
underscores there in the camel case for the letterings. So I was just wondering what's your, uh,
what, what's your scheme there? No, that's just me. It's just, uh, like I said, one of the joys
it is like, see, I don't like see one big thing being read out of its note. I like
separating out either as an underscore or like I said, the capitals. So yeah, take a pick. I can
handle either but I can't handle one long word. Very good. There's the show. There's a series of
shows. Why you do stuff the way you do comma casing and underscores. I see myself that my preferences
changed over time and I can tell based on what I've used, have what period in my life it was
that I used that sort of format or it turned out to be less than optimal. So I changed it.
And speaking of stuff that I threw into the reserve queue, uh, three holiday hacks from 2023. So
this came out on the 17th of January 2025. So more or less a year afterwards. Uh, I replaced a
battery on a Sony 810 telephone. I replaced a fan on my oscilloscope and I changed the top of my
desk and I commented, uh, update after a year in the queue. We never know how long these shows are
going to be in the queue. This one took a year to come out. Not bad. Not good. Just an observation.
So here's an update on the process. The phone is still working fine as a backup device. Uh,
someone stole my free time. So I haven't had as much chance to use my regal. What it is,
a lot nicer to use when they do have time. And both desks are still going strong and I recommend
change to anyone. Yeah, I mean, I think that was one thing. I mean, it's good actually if you'd
update us will. But, uh, just things like if you have any, if you like kind of, uh, food doing
about, I would actually recommend everybody replace a screen, replace a battery on our old phone,
a broken phone because how many bathrooms just get dumped purely because the baths are knackered.
You know, and there's no reason for it. It's, it's more land full. You know, we don't need that.
Yeah. I'm, I'm not, I'm not somebody who's an extreme environmentalist, but it does bug me
that when people throw out things, when there's nothing wrong with them. Well, I'm Scottish,
and I know how much a pound is a pound. Well, we're not not. Exactly. Exactly. Play the
stereotype. Exactly. Um, yeah. And what offended me about this was that the guy, you know, I brought
it down to the guy to repair, and it was obvious he did nothing with it. And, you know, oh, I'll give
you a scrap value for the phone and hear by another phone brand new. It's just, uh, quite irritating,
but he lost a customer that day. Yeah, absolutely. And, and rightfully so as well, it's, uh, yeah,
like I said, this does bug me especially in the tech industry. It's broken just through what
I was, was cheap to buy a new one. Yeah, but okay, it's cheap. But how much actually has that
act this tiny reborder replacement that, uh, this part was you've replaced, you know, how much could
that save if you ever did this? Uh, one thing I'd like to add on to that, when great advice
asking others to, you know, just take a moment to repair a small thing. One of the things that
you want to include in there though is, uh, you want to research the tools you may need as well.
A lot of these devices have glue in them. And when you're attempting to take them apart,
like the newer phones, you may cause damage to another part trying to separate the case. So, uh,
you want to, I fix it has a lot of great videos that can help you learn, uh, what you're in for
before you just decide to rip it apart. Yeah, great tip. And I always look at the videos for,
and in this case, the whole screen popping off thing, uh, was solved by the expanding battery
for me. So I had nothing to do. But I am actually personally, and this is my own personal opinion here,
I'm glad to see a lot of the right to repair work that they, that they, John Deere farmers did in
the US and, uh, here in the, in the EU, um, that, that's starting to have some fruition that,
you know, manufacturers are being required to make devices repairable. And, uh, you know, I,
I have an episode in the two, I think, somewhere about repairing a washing machine. And you could
tell that they've deliberately put the circuit board at the back, at the bottom, right where the
water was most likely to come to if it ever did leak so that, you know, the machine will be
unrepairable versus devices where you do have to repair them. You can be absolutely sure that
everything we've been made as easy to repair as possible that they operation will spend. The minimum
amount of time come in, put in a magic key, open the thing, replace the circuit board and shut it.
If you, if you compare something like repairing a lift to repairing a washing machine, um,
it's just the whole design philosophy of, uh, engineering devices to be repaired or not to
repair. That's a rather good old plan obsolescence. Yep. Um, and the views of Ken Fallon do not necessarily
reflect the views of HBR, blah, blah, blah, blah. Crafting interpreters. This was new host Iota. And,
this was a, a great show I would never have thought to make a compiler myself. Um, but there you go.
Uh, thoughts. Yeah, I liked the fact that when he was speaking about it as well, you know, about
the book. I liked how he wasn't just talking about, you know, go get it from here. You know, he
pointed out books available freely, uh, or, you know, here's where you can buy it if you want to
support. And I actually thought that was a good point. You know, we had to, we know, okay, not
everybody's in a position where they can support, but, you know, support something where you can,
especially people up at the Everdon. And particularly if they make it available, uh, for you to,
to view, I personally would like creative commons, but, you know, each to their own, um, boss, uh,
it is good that they make it available that you can download, uh, or that you can go to the website
and read it. Fantastic. Speaking of which, I mentioned the, you mentioned the creative comments
license. What do you think about the, um, the good new public document license? It's pretty much
similar, but a lot more for both. And I'm not a lawyer or whatever, but I think there are
relative Wikipedia had us for, uh, ages, um, and then I think they switched to the creative
problems. So I, I don't know you, uh, Karen and, uh, Bradley did a episode on, on that one stage,
might be worth digging that out. On, uh, Ken, what is their, uh, what is their podcast called now?
It renamed it a few times. Karen Sadler and Bradley couldn't do a podcast. Free is a freedom
podcast as was. And it's got as was. No, the podcast formerly known as free is in freedom.
Oh, okay. Yeah. So, um, yeah, I'd love to hear, um, an introductory episode from my author, uh,
how they managed to, you know, get your writing interpreters, how they found HBR, etc, etc, etc.
That'd be cool. Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. What are you guys doing, um, Archer's coming?
I'll do it. First show by Archer 72. I order. Thank you for your first show submission.
It is an interesting subject, especially considering the code is meant to be portable.
I am lacking in this field, but it's a good subject and book. Or it is a good subject slash book
to put on my reading list, Archer 72. No, very good. So the next day we heard, let me tell you
about Fostem by Trolloculture. And I was not aware of the, um, Ostem, um, compatible, but, uh,
yeah, but there's so much happening in Brussels at Fostem. It is unbelievable. You're never going to,
you're never going to hit everything, but I do know if I'm going to Fostem to the neck or when
I'm going to Fostem the next time I will be, uh, trapped by the hacker space at, uh, at
in Brussels and grabbing some of the crates of beer that they were delivering. I saw on
Bastardon, uh, Trolloculture had. So cool. Yeah, I just do. I was listening to this and you know,
it was almost playing tears to the ice just. I wanted to know. We might have to arrange for you
to break a leg or something. So, uh, you're off school for all. Yeah, I don't. I'm going to just
just, uh, shake you just quite for my whole dissadzly, are they? Yeah, yeah. Highly or lowly because
it's always, it is one negative thing about it is always absolutely freezing there. And you see
Brussels at its absolute worst. So, but that's probably so that everybody goes inside and goes
to Fostem. It doesn't stay here from the sun. It's probably method to the madness. Yeah.
So Tray says, thank you for sharing. I love a good hacker conference and I am excited that this
one will be freely streamed as I am the other side of the world. Thanks for sharing. And Tray,
it is not only streamed, but you can go back and review all the episodes. I think I've said it
before that when they went during Corona times, when they went 100% online, that was the first time I
actually had the time to go to any of the talks at all. So, great stuff. And then the next comment was
my Paul Jay. Paul Jay rubbing it in there, rubbing it in, obviously.
It is indeed, isn't it? See you there. Hi, Troller Coaster. Thanks for the show.
I will be traveling to Brussels for my first Fostem this coming Friday. I didn't know about
of them. So, I have now registered for the forum slash events. I will, I will look at going to
bike night. Perhaps we'll meet who knows. Cool. And Troller Coaster, thank you for the comments.
Hey, Tray. Hope you'll, hope you'll enjoy the streams and recordings. Don't forget to set aside
two months of your time if you want to hear all the recordings. Paul Jay, hope to meet you at
Fostem. Good stuff. My apologies that the tiny human brought home some germs and now they're
all rough. The following day we had Solar Spider playing Blu-ray directly from Linux
and he found his own solution. DLC, make MKV, Blu-ray, Java plugin, FDK, AAC plugin option,
and make MKV. An Archer 72 says, make MKV basically. I also purchased
make MKV when it was still $50. Until that time, I would update the monthly KVS script by user
Arya and GitHub. See, HPR 1379. No, 3179. Thank you. Just like you're kicking in.
I was going to say I had to reread that twice. I'm going to wait a minute. I'm getting
that the right way, I don't think. 31. 79. There we go. Yeah, I thought this actually,
the fact that it was this awkward to play at Blu-ray, I thought was probably quite a reflection of
how little people play physical media now in computer. I mean, mine doesn't even have,
mine doesn't even have the option. My current case doesn't have the option for an optical drive
or fitted one because there's three fans in the very front of it. And in how I was thinking about
that, going, if they were kind of commonplace, this wouldn't be an issue. They would probably play
auto-play. But yeah, so there are still some people using Blu-ray and I don't ever think I've
owned a Blu-ray player if I'm imperfectly honest. I think I've seen a disc once, but never,
but now I'm never going down that road. Well, I do like owning my physical media as I said earlier.
So, if there was a more sustainable future option, I might go with that. Go ahead over.
I was just going to say I remember them being in the shops and things when you had Blu-ray and HD
DVD side by side when the war was on. And then it was funny, Blu-ray kind of won the wars kind of
thing, but then both vanished. You don't see them in shops anymore. Yeah. Well, I think a lot of
people like that convenience factor of the streaming platforms that is until they realize they don't
actually own it. You know, when they bump into that head, that when they bump their heads on that wall,
I think they'll try to go backward because things like vinyl are making a comeback. So eventually,
I think it'll make its way back around. People will want discs again and a good place to get your
disc drive from. Was it micro center? That's where I got mine from. Super cheap. It didn't even come
in like, I guess packaging, the usual packaging. It was just in a silicone wrapper stacked on the
floor and asked, yeah. And I asked a guy, I was like, oh, those like refurbished drives or anything.
He was like, no, those are brand new. That's just how they came. I was like, give me one. I'll take it.
You say? Yeah. So I have a blue ray in here and I used handbrake once when I tried to, you know,
I, because I have the drive, I wanted to use it. I went and found a disc. I think it was game of
thrones or something. I tried to rip it, ran into some of their DRM nonsense that were on there
and immediately gave up. I was like, this is why I don't watch anything. Yeah. I think that was
what handbrake, it was so good for DVDs. I took my entire DVD collection, put it handbrake,
put it on to two external drives. Well, make sure the backup. But, you know, you were seeing
about that streaming services. It's great when the action streaming services lose it. I've got
that on the disc. Anyway, it's also good for the internet. Just look at him to watch.
Yeah. Well, even if they don't go down, one of the problems that's happening now is they still
want to introduce commercials or ads into the product that you've so-called purchased already.
Yeah. Now, that's a warm hole we could easily go down. I think the show's getting long enough.
Yeah. And the thoughts and comments is made on this episode. Do not necessarily reflect views of
me or my employer. Just get that in there and get out of jail sauce. Thank you very much.
The following day. Do we not have comments? Do we? There was the one in there. I thought we read it.
Maybe. Yeah, we did. Arches 72. I also purchased
make him get. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Sorry. No, that's right. Yes, yes, we did read it. Sorry.
So, given that I on the days, this is on the 23rd building your own devian images from the pie.
This one we dusted off from the reserve to by D&T. And Rito said, firmware, it was about making your
own packages for a Raspberry Pi, which I thought was actually a nice topic. And he said,
was easy enough to do and give simple instructions for doing the same. So you would have your own
packages that you could install onto a Raspberry Pi, which would definitely be useful. Rito asked
the question, firmware blob, high D&T. I didn't know that. Thank you for the show question. So far,
as I know, Raspberry Pi still has a firmware blob. Did you get this via devian? Cheers, Rito.
And D&T responded with, hey, Rito, I believe so. There is a devian package called
raspy-firmware. And then he gives the URL for it. Side note since recording is, I've learned that
the graphical app Raspberry Pi Imager, again with link, can do some of the things I talked about here
such as adding an SSH key to the authorized keys file. And yes, I can confirm it because I use
Raspberry Pi Imager and it's one of the handy features. Yes, very good. One of the things that did
do go was break the script that I had for making download images, automating them. I will have to
revisit that when I have time, again, TM has some time, asterisk. Yeah, when you find some time,
please tell us where you're phone did exactly. Yeah, like so.
Isaac Hasmov, I robot was the next episode and this was of course, by Huka. And it was
and it was part of the science fiction fantasy series about Isaac Hasmov and his I robot series.
And I commented, say, I robot, I loved this series, this series of stories. And after rereading
them, I still love them despite the computer file episode why Azimov's laws of robotics don't work.
And on the next comment was by Stullvoid, great series. Thanks, Ahuka, for putting these out.
I'm thoroughly enjoying your rundown of sci-fi. I think my tastes aligned pretty much closely.
I've read most of Azimov at least and I'm still discovering new stuff to put on my reading list.
And from Kevin O'Brien, more to come. I'm glad you're enjoying the Azimov.
I have Arthur C. Clark coming up in later this year. So more Doctor Who and then Robert A. Helm
had Henlin. Okay, butchered that one properly. I started to think this series could last
until I'm putting it in a hole. I didn't want to read it because I thought that's what he was saying.
But till I'm putting it in a hole, till I'm putting it in a hole, which I hope will be far
for in the future. I am 73. So it's inside. And 73 from us, Kevin, put it all the hand
media. Yeah, when I got to that part, I thought one of my, you know, the brain governing
kicks in is like, well, wait, don't read that. And I was like, oh, it's fine. It's a who gets
should be fine. But the whole put in the home thing, I ran into a situation that the around here
in personal life, where they were talking about ageism recently. So that's why that kind of flagged
for me. Yeah. Well, if you want to feel young, join the amateur radio community.
Well, that's what all the hip and cool kids are doing these days. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
So on the 27th of January, episode 4301, widescreen, synth, e-bike, LED,
clock matrix, and jewelry making work to some of the topics that Lee was talking about, to which
I come as a wasting shows, whoa, great collection of topics, all of which could have been their own
shows, smiley face. And yes, I did spot the improvised, piercing reference when he was talking
about the earrings. And the following one is from Brian and Ohio. ABR dude, great show, especially
enjoyed the music. As for ABR dude, from the examples, save flash memory and raw binary format
to the file named C-colon-diagflash.bin. And then he's doing quite a few code, which I'm not going
to read, I could check yourselves from the show notes. ABR dude, done. Thank you. Of course, change
dash P to proper part and your dash C to the programmer type. Now, if that wasn't an episode in
itself, I don't know what would be. But the show itself was essential, let's face it. The first
one, the ultra wide monitor was, dude, look at the really cool monitor I have. I've got the coolest
monitor on the block, and I can't argue with that. It's number one. And we're treated to examples
of how cool it looks in in No Man's Sky and Skyrim. And some synth stuff should be a link,
if I'm not mistaken. It's not coming up as a link for somebody, but it is coming up as a link,
but it's not showing as a link. And then the Arduino clock, which is super cool. And the earring
making, which is also super cool. Yeah, absolutely. I enjoyed this whole episode. He did actually talk
about the problem with the Arduino coding. He'd lost the coding, but he had never reset the code
so he's basically got that on that forever. And he never won't take it off, otherwise he might lose
it completely. But yeah, that's one thing with microcontroller. She's surely in this day and age,
there should be a fairly easy way. I'm not saying that I'm not saying that he's Mr. Anisey. I'm
saying this day and age surely, there should be an easy way to pull the code off, especially when
it's your code. You would think so. You would, but it's probably, it probably seems easy to do
and all the hardware hackers out there are going, you know, you have no idea. So I got a question
about that for him if he wants to comment on it. When when gaming with a monitor that wide,
like I'm looking at the No Man sky that looks okay, but the Skyrim one, I'm imagining as you're
going through the world, like if you're in a very, you know, a game that has like a very short
time to kill. If you're doing first person shooters or anything like that, are you getting whiplash
looking from left the right to cover that span? Yeah, there's a reason that generally gaming
monitors kind of peak out, generally, 32 inches. You don't really want to have negatives.
Oh yeah. So the next day we had another one from the plan coming down with another gaming show.
I'm concerned now that HGAR is going to be overwrong by all the gamers. I see you were putting the
call out for so long so you guys are actually and now I'm complaining about it yet. So I have
been coming to this spam. When I saw thought that this was spam when I posted this, the link
provided brought me to a site that discussed the recent Trump election, both, and yes,
further investigation showed who it wasn't. And then I had no idea this type of game existed.
This is fascinating to get a walk through from our official HGAR or a gamer reviewer.
Yeah, I'd never heard of this for myself until he reviewed it, but he was showing me it and
what's brilliant is you don't have to just do the kind of reason. You can basically go back to
almost any election in the United States. I wouldn't refresh the page. It went like into
a very gentle and then somebody else and then, oh, okay, right, it's not bad. I just happened to
arrive at Trump versus what was the case? How does? Yeah. Yeah, so I didn't actually try it myself
after in face because I'm not really that into US politics to once it turned election thing,
but he was showing me it and yeah, it was quite a good game. Actually, after good face.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm spending as much time away from the election as possible at this point.
My master on feed looks like filtered politics, filtered politics, filtered politics, filtered politics.
So on the 29th, we have TIL, two things to do with firewall D. You can't use 10.0.0.0. If you restart
firewall D, you should restart the putman containers. So this is coming out of the reserve queue from
D&T and there was some feedback from maston with requests to people who could do networking
shows for us. You can't use the last block of this slash 24 metric. In fact, you can't use
the first and last any metric either, which is why the first one is for broadcast.
One is for broadcast and the other is network. So you can't use the first and last addresses
there reserved. Yeah, I did not know that until this show. So that was actually quite interesting.
I did not know that at all. I should. Yeah, I learned that a while back when I upgraded my home
network and did a show, I stumbled upon it. The first one is for the router and the second and the
last one is for broadcasting. I think doesn't your printer use that one a lot to annoy you?
No, no, no, they're both part of the IP protocol ranges. So they are used as communication channels
so that all it's the reserve channel where everybody is supposed to listen to in order to get
broadcast addresses. So one is broadcast and the other is network. I'll do a show on it or I'll
get somebody to do a show on it. Okay, as yet there were no comments on that. I expect them next
month and the following day we had a show by a hooker, travel pouches for cables. This was
again coming from the reserve show, reserve queue and kind of travels a lot or at least
did at the time and wanted something to organize all those cables is your real time saver.
And it's really nice. It was good. It was amazing because I was actually in the market for looking
at all of these kind of things and I thought which one which are good and it was funny because I was
like wow, that is amazing. This is come out now. Just up report and Tray found his existing cable case
has been exceeded. So he was also, he was in my travel collection of cable and power adapters
as exceeded the capacity of my existing case link provided and I am looking for a replacement.
So your recommendation looks like it will exceed my needs. Thank you. So there you go, two people.
The only thing that I would like to see action with this and is that both of those links are links to
a certain, a certain big website, very big website. I would river. Yes, named after a certain river.
Then I would actually like to propose that if you have got a computer kind of accessibility store
in your local area, you know, show them what you want and just say, right, can you get me something
like this? Give some, give some business to the wee guys. Exactly. Okay, the following day
and it was the last episode of the month of the 31st, which is actually today as we're recording
this, my weight and my biases, personal reflection on the ethics of AI in our society. Very
little to do, which is weight, a lot of us mentioned. And a good discussion about topics that
you should be thinking about when it comes to AI and trollocostals saying, well, this is,
you know, I'm getting on the soapbox basically talking about this, but I do think we have,
we have a responsibility as people to go, you know, hold your horses there on certain topics.
And, you know, not just go along with every trend, but I also heard a good today discussion
on class weekly where he said, I'm hoping for the AI bubble to burst soon so that we can get
down to all the useful stuff that it can take. Just as with the dot com bubble winner went away,
we got down to just using the internet as a tool and then we can use AI as a tool. So interesting.
Now with the bubble mentioned, I'm assuming that's the everyone's need to try and make a million
dollars off of it. If once that comes down there, we could try and actually actually use it as a tool.
Yeah, and we do use, you know, we do use it here in HPR. We do all the transcoding of the thing
with whisper from open AI are useful. There are uses for us, but you need to, as with everything else,
understand it and, you know, engage very well, as with any technology, I found it interesting when
I was researching that topic for the webcam presentation that, you know, wireless telecommunications at
the time, there were also like the wireless telecommunication bros out founding companies,
getting investments, building stuff in places where it could possibly work. You know, what goes
around comes around and I'm sure around the time of the permits in Egypt, you have permit bros
going, hey, you want to buy shares in my permit over here, you know, I've got a whole stack of
stuff in my quarry here. The original pyramid scheme. Exactly.
Goodness is something. Well, just while Ken's going to spray the bag out, no, I was just going to say,
I actually thought I'd really enjoyed this, although the only thing I didn't enjoy was a 55-minute
shoe on the day we're recording. This proved to be difficult to actually fit in, but I managed it
the... I did. I did actually like, I thought it was interesting when he started talking about,
you know, the negative effects, I mean, you see just now on the telly on that advertised,
is the, you know, people talking to AI and it's almost like it's a human, you know,
it's talking about the negative effects that can have on children, especially, and the thing is,
we don't even need AI for that. You know, we're talking about them building them up all the time and
saying everything's amazing. We're seeing this in our current time. The kids in the UK just now,
I can't recommend it anywhere else, but in the UK, they've been told everything's amazing,
and when they come to secondary, you're actually having to say to them, that's a pile of crap.
You've got to sweep start that and you've got to redo this in a different way, and they fall apart,
you know, they can't take any feedback. Okay, I'm not allowed quite to see it like I did there,
but you know, they don't have any way, because they've always been told, wow, they're amazing,
and everything we do is amazing. Yeah, yeah, and the thing is, you're actually, no, that's rubbish,
you have to restart that completely, and they can't handle it. It's almost like you're up against
what, that you say that the parent then gets contacted, because you've upset the kid,
and you've been done for bullying, and say, what? No, I'm giving constructive feedback.
And the thoughts of Kevin are not necessarily those of him. They definitely know it, and he's
he's really glad as well. I got one thing I wanted. Kevin, I have thoughts some day we should have
just a beer. Anyway, yes, go ahead over. I'm a little bit concerned with the use of it, and
I guess like a literature documentation that that area, I have seen some books that were like
completely generated with this stuff, and it is just nonsense. So when people use it, you should
use it to assist with work being done, not use it to do all of the work. Yeah, because it totally,
it is, it is a great tool, but they're just trying to replace actual humans doing the work, and
that's where the problem comes in. There was a, there's a lady that I listened to on YouTube. I
can't think of her name right now. The German lady, she explained a lot of the garbage white papers
that are being submitted by people who just gen up just complete nonsense. So they have a backlog
happening now, because these things, someone has to take the time to go through them and look at them
over, and people are just getting frustrated, not even, you know, great researchers being submitted
and being overlooked, because you have to filter through the nonsense to being gen up with these
language models. And the places like the current all milling lists are getting bugs of missions
generated by AI, people generated by AI and wasting their time as well. So anyway, it is, AI
is my major issue with it, was and continues to be same with Bitcoin, the environmental impacts
of just wasting, wasting all this completion power could be used for folding at home or
identifying diseases or all sorts of stuff could be used for something more useful than just
wasting, wasting energy, wasting the views of Kemphthalon do not necessarily represent those
of the three. Well, a lot of legal issues in this podcast, I think, for today.
Exactly. Anyway, the next day would be, no, no, yes, would be,
fish, but we have comments that we need to read that were, there were seven comments on four
previous shows. So if you nip to the episode page, which I'll paste through you,
scotty into the chat moment, took a lot longer than it should have. And we had a comment on
a hookah's 4070 show, which was aired on the 8th of March, Civilization 3. And it was a comment
by Red Orm. Thanks for your thoughtful podcast about a game franchise. I quickly became obsessed
after scoffering Civilization 2. Civilization 3 was for me a welcome upgrade and I spent many hours
playing it. I listened to all your Civilization 3 podcasts and they were great. I wouldn't comment
on them all for fear of raising a spam alert. Never stop, Peter. You're not far ahead.
On the, now we also have another comment on that episode by Kevin O'Brien. Thank you. I'm glad
you liked it. We serve addicts on many as I have discovered. And now Civilization 7 is going
to be released in just a few weeks. So this will continue unless I drop dead. And then we had a
comment on a hookah's The Golden Age, which was from the 29th of November 2024,
and from Moss Bliss on PenguCon. Scotty, are you in a position to read that?
Yes, I attempted to suggest myself as a guest to PenguCon 2024, but was told that I was too late
and should try again for 2025. Beginning both, being both a hold on, hold on. I'm holding down
control from my push to talk and it zoomed to page one second. Yeah. Being both a known filter
and a known Linux podcaster, both I and they both I and they thought I would be a perfect guest.
Sadly, for more recent contact with them, resulting in me being told that they were not sure
there would be even there would be even be a PenguCon in 2025. I'd look forward to hearing from
them in the future. What if you lie in days in there? Yeah. Well, Kevin says, sorry to fear it.
I think in hindsight, the COVID pandemic really hurt PenguCon. They had to cancel seven years
running for public health reasons and it cost them a lot of momentum. I was planning to attend
in 2024, but as it happened, I got sick, nothing serious and elected to stay home. Instead,
I'm not part of the team anymore, so I have no particular insight into where things maybe
headed. Can you do the on the wreck? Yep. And HPR 4274, the wreck I'm all right by Archers 72.
There was a comment by Annabelle with I don't know if you're going to keep the recording to
yourself or not. You were insanely lucky. You survived and you are stronger for it. I love you.
Talk soon, Annabelle. And that's Mark's niece. Oh, that's nice. Oh, yeah, I actually missed
that part. Yeah, Mark's niece. And Huka had to show Isaac has more of the foundation on the 27th
of December. Redone said, one of my favorite things about the foundation trilogy apart from the
scale and the brilliance of the story was the cover art by Chris Floss on the paperback editions
on sale in the UK. You could place all three from covers in order and have a bigger,
better picture. What I later learned was a trip tick. Look forward to your next podcast.
Kevin O'Brien with Thank You. I'm a huge fan of Asmalfe in over the years. I cannot
guess how many times I've read the original trilogy, but over 20 years, over 20 seems like a
plausible number. I plan to continue the series with more golden age SF and more doctor who,
and I don't imagine I will ever run out of material. That is that is I think it is for the shows
and the comments. And I'm just mosing over to the GitHub to have a look as see if we can get
another quick overview of what's been happening in the last month or so. So let's see.
Oh, we have adding developer environment setup instructions. This Paul J doing some cleanup work.
Roan has fixed the escape XML data in the comes feed. Paul J's corrected the startup.
I removed opus, sorry, added opus and removed speaks. So we no longer have speaks. If anybody
would like a speak feed restored, that's fine, but there is a cost in time and effort involved in
that. And we have now the opus feed. So there was two on that. We did some reorganization of the show,
show transcripts so that it is now not a separate section at the end of the episode.
It's up at the top. You can get a SRT file, which if you download most media players,
I'm put it in the same folder. It will play and you can have subtitles of what
whisper things will said in the episode. And we also have a text description which will form
the basis of another feed, which will be a text only feed if you're interested in that.
And the question to the community is, do you, is it of interest to also distribute the SRT files
with the episode or not? Or perhaps provide that as an option. That feedback will be appreciated
on that. We also renamed today with a techie so that it composes a new convention of three letters.
We linked to the episode in the comments of the sections. We updated some of the
hub scripts for the CDN stuff to allow the head method as well as the get. So web crawlers and bots
can just check to see if the file exists or they download it. That's quite good. We had a fix for
the reserve show confirming confirmation of missing stuff. We removed the base URL so that
episodes, images associated with episodes are in the same folder and just on a side note where
I started after the internet archive came back downloading and gathering together all the
media files, files that were uploaded, extension loads, images and all that stuff.
It's still in a state of flux but we're in the process of getting it all into one place so that
it can be replicated in some way. And this sort of stuff is not as obvious as the media files
because we know what they are and they're on the CCDN. So a community content delivery network
which is a network of mirrors supplied by community. So if you have a disk for two to four
terabytes and you have a fiber optic or always on connection and have spare bandwidth that you have
available. The amount of bandwidth it consumes is not that great and it's nicely spread over
the whole day as the world goes round. So there are very few peaks and throughs in it. Feel free
to join our network, send an email to admin at hackpublicradio.org. What we're missing though
is something in between where do we put all the images? Do we check them into the data repo?
In some cases we might have a video file associated with an episode and that's obviously too big.
So some questions there as to what the best course of action and role in this having a look at
that first. So just so that you know about that. We updated the developer information as well.
Let's see, do we have any open issues? I'm as well as that there have been many, many changes to
the processing script. What it is now producing an audit report so it generates a HTML file for
the janitor who's posting the shows which is me and gives spectrum way for audio links that you can
scroll across to see if the show is actually what it was about. With that I've spotted loads of
issues that I would normally have not spotted. For example, one of the episodes that was submitted
had a huge buzz at the end of the episode. That wasn't there at the beginning so I was able to spot
that visually and by scrolling across and I sent it off to audiophonic.com to get a fixed.
So what else? Yes. Let's see what the poll requests were. Let me see issues that we have. File,
we need to remove the show notes from the landing page and HPR. Speaking of that, I had
a request to open to have people help out with the main website and Jesra and Lee both
step forward to assist. Jesra is a little bit busy at the moment but we'll see the slamming
seasons over. We'll get back to us and Lee has put together his idea of what it should look like
and I put that on hobbypublicreviewer.org if you want to have a look at that and I post it also
into the matrix channel. There's a repo on the get repo page. We need to add the duration to the
GWT page today with a techie and it loads issues, comment free, not producing furthered HML
to filtering, we moved the fast down series which we did. We consolidated quite a lot of
series and fast down was still not around so we've consolidated that and just added fast down tags
to those episodes. Also, I had some time, I've decided to stop Doom scrolling and actually read
some of the magazines that I have on my way into work and I noticed that in back episodes we have
been referenced, HPR, has been referenced in both the Dutch and Veron, amateur radio
magazine and the British RSGB magazine, both of which are useful for getting a Wikipedia page
because it means we're going to print an actual news organization so that will allow people to
make our HPR page after 20 years. You still don't have a web page, you still don't have a Wikipedia
page, so anybody who has not submitted the show yet to HPR please create a HPR web page,
that will be a cool thing to do. Stuff I'm still looking for, yeah, that's sort of thing,
quite just with the, as I said, some guy in the internet has volunteered to help out with
the community news, that does not mean that you need to join the show every time, it is more
about getting the timing sorted and keeping track of it because sometimes I use track of it and
make mistakes, as you can see by having three fixes for a time in the mailing. And speaking of
the mailing list, we had the community news behind the scenes which we discussed in the last show,
we had a suggestion by AI7HC about a WIZWIG editor using ARIA libel tag which is a good suggestion.
Thank you, that is in my inbox and it's on the list of stuff to do as soon as I get the
internet archive thing, going and still working on the show upload process script as I said before
I went out on that wild tangent. We have quite a lot of things working now so that when I
or sync it up to the central location, the mirrors automatically pick it up, also the Dutch ones as
well as the US ones, we're making Dave and I are working on the internet archive stuff and that's
the next note I need to crack and it's a big one. So thank you AI7H3 for that. I sent a
suggestion asking people to use the WIZWIG editor because I had posted, I was going through the
backlog of shows and then of course just as soon as I posted it, every single show after that was
done properly so pretty much ignored me and I asked for proposals on the web design and I'm glad
to see that both Jessra and Lee responded to that call and hopefully we're making some, that will
result in some tickets for the guys who are working on the HDR generator code and we can get that
rolled out so that would be nice. It would be nice to have that done before our 20th anniversary
this year but that's in October so I think we're good. Then we had the community news announcement
that was it. How about which actually, of course, are we a bit of an issue this month?
Because for some reason after I actually had messaged yourself, I never got anything after that
now it's going to be panic. Yeah, this is why I don't, I shouldn't be doing that stuff. This is now
going to be some guy in the internet whenever we get up to speed. And as I say,
if you can talk to Dave and yourself, he has a format. He's currently generating a script
but we can generate it automatically either with Roans Code, our PHP script on the website or
the app script or something. It's essentially just the information coming from the database. So we
have access to the database and to quote our developer tools, we are by default, our data is
available. So let's get it in the easiest format we can so that we have that, the show notes ready
every month. And I also want to change it so that on the website, currently the way Dave has been
doing it, I'm just because we've been doing this for 15 years and things move on. He has been
booking every year the shows for the next year in the databases. That's the only way we had to
reserve it. What I'd like to do is just do that in code with the PHP thing so that it prevents people
from submitting a show on the first Monday of the month unless you happen to be a HPR volunteer's
email address. So specifically, it's reserved for that email address.
And then we can just post it like a regular show and I can process it like a regular show as well.
And that's all I got to say about that. So there have been anything on the some going
internet and Archers 72 are, I don't know, nannies on the matrix channel. Has there been anything
interesting happening over there? Mostly been the same old conversation that I've been hoping
things would pick up a bit more now that the holiday is over with, but yeah, nothing new.
So tell people what matrix channel is and what you can expect, because I mean we're already
two hours into this thing. So matrix is a wonderful playground for ideas. And when you head on over
to the Hacker Public Radio's matrix channel, you can use a, we call it matrix. That's the protocol,
I believe, but the application that you'll probably be using is element. There are others,
excuse me, the throw thing. There are the applications that allow you to access it. And we do have a
link in the notes I'm assuming for the HPR matrix channel. Yeah, the bottom and the bottom
of those links. Yeah. Okay. So once you join, obviously, you can hang out with everybody. I'm
always there annoying people just throwing things out there asking for help whenever I get bogged
down. We have a great time. You're free to express your ideas. You have an idea for a show.
Definitely just toss it around, interact with the community. And we can help you out with
doing your shows as well. Great place to be. Join us if you can. Cool stuff. And you're on the
Discord channel, I believe, Kevin. You're on the Discord. Telegram. Telegram. I was going to
just call for quite a while. Right. Yeah. I'm on the Telegram channel. And yet it's actually
gotten fairly active recently. It was kind of dormant for quite a while, which wasn't a lot
happening. But recently, conversation has sparked up. And it's not that we've gained that many
new users. It's we've gained a lot more active users. So it's a small group there. But the one
good thing about it is it seems to be whenever people are posting about it, it does seem to generate
a weak conversation. So yeah, if I don't go to search up a hacker public radio and the links,
of course, on the website itself. Cool. So with that, thank you guys. Thank you all. And thanks
Rachel for dropping in. Scotie, thanks for coming at this awkward time for you guys. And
Kevin, thanks a million for joining. It's definitely nicer when there are more people and not just
be around to go on about stuff. Absolutely. I mean, people don't want to hear me
ranting on, don't want to hear just you ranting on either. You need some of us on the banter.
Okay. So tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it leads. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
