Episode: 4508
Title: HPR4508: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4508/hpr4508.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:11:48

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4508 for Wednesday 12 November 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 hash 8.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Ahukah shares part 8 of his list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
This one is coming to you from the Reserve Q.
You know what that means?
That means there aren't enough shows coming in and you need to do something about that.
Hacker Public Radio is a community project and it relies on the community to submit the
shows that keep the community going.
At some point, if the shows don't come in, we just shut the whole thing down.
I'm going to assume if you're listening to this, you're subscribed and you would regret
that.
So the best way to make sure it doesn't happen is to submit shows.
It's really easy.
So with that, I'm going to continue what I've been doing for a while now, which is going
through my YouTube channel subscriptions.
And I'm going to pick up this with Levant du Nord.
Now Levant du Nord is a French Canadian folk music band that I really like.
I like folk music and the French Canadian slant on it.
It is kind of related to some other things, including Celtic, but you know, it has its
own particular flavor and it's not quite like anything else and it's enjoyable.
Now if you're a music person, it might be worth checking out if you think that might
be the sort of thing you'd want to listen to.
Now the next channel is called Learn Spanish with SpanishPod101.com, obviously we've talked
before about how I am learning Spanish and have been really since the COVID pandemic hit.
And this is one of the tools I think by now I've hit all three of the major tools that
I use.
So I use SpanishPod101.com, I use Duolingo and I use Coffee Break Spanish.
So those are the three major things that I do.
There's also another channel that we might get to that I dip into from time to time.
Okay, the next channel I'm going to talk about is Lindsay Sterling.
Now Lindsay is a violinist dancer, so it has a very energetic show.
And it's fun, is she the world's best violinist?
No, no, not the world's best dancer, but she puts on a good show and you know, that's
reason enough to check it out.
So I'm on the channel so I get to see what she's been doing.
The next channel is Louis LaGal and Louis is another one of the doctor who fans that
I follow who puts out videos.
His videos are not frequent and they tend to be long and you know, that's usually the
case.
If you're putting out videos every day, they're not going to be long videos.
If you're going to do something that's going to take an hour and a half when you put
it out, you might spend several months producing it.
So it's fun stuff.
It's a doctor who oriented and so if you're into a doctor who check it out.
Next one is Lucinox.
Now Lucinox is kind of an offshoot of the channel that I discussed previously called
Fire of Learning and it just never really took off.
They at one point a few months back as I record this said, well, we're just closing it
down for now.
You know, that may end up being permanent, but I'm just leaving it on the list because
it does no harm to leave it on the list.
So the subscriptions there, if they start it up again, I'll know about it.
And if they don't, no harm, no foul.
Now the next one is called Lydian Label Online.
And this is a channel done by the band Lydian Collective.
Now this is I think London based, certainly UK based, but I believe they're mostly based
in London.
And they do a kind of a jazz fusion sort of thing.
It's keyboards, guitar, bass, and drums.
I really like what they do.
They tend to be what I think of as very tasteful.
In other words, they're not trying to see, you know, how much they can dazzle you with
millions of notes they can produce.
They instead seem to be trying to make music.
What a concept.
And I'm a huge fan of the Lydian Collective.
I have all of the CDs.
I will continue to get all of the CDs as long as they keep producing them.
The only way I can see them is through YouTube because they're not at the point where they're
touring outside the country.
And so that's the best I can do.
Next channel, many a true nerd.
Well, you know, this is, among other things, a lot of it has to do with computer gaming
and other nerdy topics.
This is one of those channels where they put out more videos than I actually take the
time to watch because a lot of the times it's something I'm just not interested in.
But when they do something I'm interested in, then that's great.
And that's how I approach it, you know, I get a notification for every video and then
I decide, is this what I want to watch or not?
The next channel I want to discuss here is called Mean Mr. Mayo.
It's a guy named Joe Mayo and the name is a play on the Beatles Mean Mr. Mustard.
And this is a primarily Beatles related channel.
He does some movie reviews as well.
But I basically follow it for the Beatles content.
He's also on a podcast that I listen to, which also has a channel.
And this is one that's devoted to the Beatles as individual solo performers after the Beatles
broke up.
The next one is called Midas Touch.
Midas Touch is the name of a news organization, liberal.
And they are becoming very prominent in the alternative media space.
One of the things that we're seeing now is that politicians do not necessarily just
communicate with people through the major television networks or the major news outlets.
That in fact so many people have tuned out all of those things that if you want to reach
people you have to do things like go on YouTube or go on the podcasts or what have you.
So this is a, they put out a number of shows daily.
Some of them I listen to, some of them I don't again, it's a function of time sometimes.
You put out a 10 minute video on a topic, I'm liable to listen.
You put out an hour long video, now there's a good chance I'm going to say now I'm going
to skip it.
There's only so many hours in the day and I'm not going to spend all of them in front
of a computer screen watching YouTube videos.
This is something I do in the evening, you know, after dinner I relax and watch some
YouTube videos before I go to bed.
Next one I'm going to mention is called mental floss and this is a fun one.
It is kind of a nerdy channel that does a variety of different things.
Some of them are list videos like 15 mispronounced words, those are the list videos.
They also do misconceptions videos like misconceptions about Africa, stuff like that.
Light entertainment but I always enjoy it.
Now the next one I want to discuss is called Metatrek and this is a Star Trek related
channel and so it talks about Star Trek, you know, examining how certain themes are
handled in the show or reviewing different things in the show.
Obviously I will know I'm a big Doctor Who fan, I've been getting into Star Trek as
well and lately I've been going through, I got a boxed set of all of the original series,
the three seasons back in the 1960s and my wife and I have been going through that.
So you know, there's no reason you have to just have one bit of geek in your life, you
can have multiples.
The next I'm going to mention is called the Michigan Irish Music Festival, I love Irish
music, I love going to Irish Music Festivals, I've been Ireland a couple of times and enjoyed
music when I was there, in fact I remember in Belfast a few years ago going on kind of
a pub crawl led by some musicians and it was a lot of fun.
While we have in Michigan where I live, we have our own Irish festival that is in September
every year, I've been to it and enjoyed a lot so this lets me keep up with the news
on that.
There's another big Irish festival by the way in Dublin, Ohio, well with a name like
Dublin, you know, you kind of have to do it right and we're going to be going there
with a couple of friends this year.
Next channel is MinuteEarth and along with that is MinutePhysics, I'll treat them together
because they're pretty similar, basically they use animation drawings to develop short
videos and talking about, I'll say an average of about three minutes the piece to talk about
some topic involving earth science or physics and they come out, I'm going to say probably
less than once a week, you know, maybe once every two weeks but they're fun and I enjoy
them.
Next is a channel called, well it's the name of the person, Mohini Day, Mohini Day is
a bass player from India and she is absolutely phenomenal.
So this is, she'll put stuff out on the channel, usually fairly short, you know, her performing
some place so she might do a three minute clip of her doing a bass solo at a concert
or something like that, she's really good and I enjoy it.
The next channel I want to mention is the Mona Lisa Twins, you know, Mona Lisa is obviously
the name of a famous painting but they're actually two twins, two ladies and one of them
is named Mona and the other is named Lisa so it was kind of a natural thing for them
to put together.
When I first was listening to them they were doing a lot of covers of Beatles songs and
they still do a lot of covers of Beatles songs, they also have their own material that
they write, they've been performing at the cavern in Liverpool, you know, it's, I'm a huge
Beatles fan so I enjoy the Mona Lisa Twins as well.
Then there's a Monty Python, you know, you kind of have to have Monty Python, you can't
go through life without your Monty Python.
And this is mostly little snippets from the TV program or occasionally from one of the
movies and they just put a little piece of that out there just to sort of keep in the
public eye a little bit.
Then there's more perfect union and this is a channel that is kind of devoted to how
we can, you know, strengthen unions and build working class power and pretty much United
States oriented as far as that goes.
And that happens to be something I'm a great believer in so I follow the channel.
And there's Mr. Tartus.
Well you may know that the Tartus is the blue police box that Dr. Who flies around
time and space in.
So Mr. Tartus is another Dr. Who channel that does reviews, discussion, you know, what's
going on in the world of Dr. Who, what's the latest news from the BBC.
So this is a channel where I can keep up with all of that.
And so with that, I think that's probably enough for this.
So this is a hookah for Hacker Public Radio signing off and encouraging you to support
FreeSoftware.
Bye, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
The hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
