Episode: 4179
Title: HPR4179:  HPR New Years Eve Show 2023 - 24 ep 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4179/hpr4179.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:00:46

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4179 for Thursday the 8th of August 2024.
Today's show is entitled, HP or New Year's Eve Show 2023-24-5.
It is hosted by Hong Kimagoo and is about 118 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HP or community comes together to converse.
This show really is lacking, isn't it?
This time, I don't know what it is.
I don't like that. It's hilarious.
Everyone over in the States is probably cooking their barbecue now.
What time is it there? It must be...
No. It's not fun.
It's not snowing over there, but...
I suppose it depends where they are.
No, it's snowing over there.
It's cold.
Have you lived outside of Australia?
No.
Only in England for a year.
And that was bloody cold.
It worked up in the snow fields in Victoria, which is not far from here.
And it gets minus 14 up there, which is horrendous.
I don't know why people are up there for fun.
On top of a mountain, a hill.
Yeah.
It's a mountain range. It's northeast of Victoria, not far from where I live.
Well, yeah, exactly.
So it's...
Well, yeah, it can get cold.
Sure, yeah.
It's terrible.
And on the other side, I've also worked in 45 degree temperatures.
In the middle of a pettic.
That's not very pleasant either.
45 C.
No, not C.
More than maybe.
Yeah, so it's camp.
Ah, 40, yeah.
Actually, that was a heat wave.
And I'm going to use to say last year now.
So last year, yeah.
2023 to be clear.
We're talking about...
In Italy.
And I think parts of Portugal as well.
And maybe Greece.
I think France got hit by summer as well in Spain.
And we had this like the usual English sort of rainy.
Like, oh, it's rainy and it's supposed to be summer.
And we're getting all this rain and it's not very nice.
But they were getting like 44 degrees C heat wave.
And that really is a heat wave in Europe.
And you know, we're not used to that in the UK.
Or even these places where it gets a bit hotter.
It's like 44 C.
It's like, whoa, well, at 42.
Even 30 and 35 or something.
It's like hot and then 44, 42, whatever it was.
It's like crazy.
That's like a proper heat wave.
And I mean, we've had an end and all the time that rained and it's cold.
And even when it's supposed to be summer, it's supposed to be nicer than it is.
Or that we didn't get enough summer heats and all this.
And well, if we get a 44 degree heat wave, it's going to be an absolute and utter disaster.
There would.
Anyone who may be struggling with that.
And then it's sounding like this may happen because global warming also they say as well.
Maybe, you know, it could be this summer coming maybe.
But it's going to be an absolute disaster because we're not set up for this at all.
As in most buildings, homes or offices or shops or...
Well, no, actually, I think the shops have a little bit of a conditioning usually saying that.
But the most built, they'll see most homes have no air conditioning.
There's no fans either that go around on the ceiling.
Yeah, it could be a big problem.
Plus the power to people who would air conditions in if they could.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the power units got to run.
We have ages during summer, fairly frequently.
When they get a hot day and everyone's got their recons running.
And the power goes off because it can't cope with the load.
Because the power does too much at the door of the power, yeah, overload.
The other problem you guys might have in schools as well.
The schools won't be selling for either.
Schools and hospitals less so because they're on these on a different grid.
But you guys don't store very much water, I believe.
So because you'd run so much, you don't need a big water storage.
Exactly so with that one.
Because what I heard when I was like a sort of heat wave here,
maybe last summer or the summer before,
when it was hotter than sort of respective certain places.
Yeah, some of the water companies were struggling and they were getting,
okay, it's hose bands again.
You're not allowed to water your garden.
And I've had that happen in the past in places too.
But my water company, they were going like, oh no, no, don't worry about it.
Yeah, we've got plenty of water.
So don't worry about any heat or whatever.
Yeah, I wonder because I heard that water storage per capita is very low compared to us.
We store a lot of water because we have regular droughts.
Yeah, it could be that as well.
We have rivers and lakes and other places where the water grows white.
Wherever the water comes from, yeah, there are places.
But we have natural rivers.
We have some lakes, well here, around here.
In other parts of some lakes and stuff.
There's bebres.
I don't see the sea waters there.
But I don't think it's, yeah, I don't think it's really,
if there was a drought, as you called it, where it really is like,
whoa, we're like a desert now or something.
Yeah, we're going to have a problem.
Again, as well when I said, you know, if there's a 44 degree,
I remember a year when it was hot for like three weeks or something.
I mean, hot.
At first, it was nice.
But then it was like, oh, geez.
It's like 30 degrees in the day or something.
And it was like, you feel really hot inside at night as well.
And I went to a cinema just to cool.
That one knows to get cinema anyway.
But we also went down there to sit in air conditioning for a bit, yeah.
Or some watching movie to cool off and whatever.
But then I had to come back to the flat and the stuffy heat
to that inside heat where, you know what I'm sure you know,
I mean, where it's just like, oh, it's just not nice.
Yeah.
Where it gets like that.
Yeah, it's all humid and stuffy.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's like, oh.
But yeah, if we get a 44 degree heat wave, it's going to be a problem.
I mean, I mean, we don't even deal with snow poppy in this country.
Right?
We don't tend to get snow.
We're not around here.
And some of the Scotland poppy gets what they do in places.
But England doesn't tend to get snow.
And if we do get snow anywhere, it becomes the right panic.
And it's like it affects transport.
And people have things that snow on the roads.
And people get a bit.
People can't get silly about it.
And then it's in some ways.
The heat within the opposite is obviously heat wave.
So it was hot before, but yeah, 44 degree.
And the problem is as well, that's the sort of temperature
that could possibly kill somebody, I believe, as well.
Like old people and old people and things.
Yeah, for sure.
It's very easy to get dehydrated because you just sweat.
Anything above your body temperature, like 39 or whatever.
He's very problematic.
So generally, you was up over 40, you just found out
my cook spot to sit and just sit there and drink cold beer.
I remember watching it on Greece last year, 2023.
I think it was Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Greece.
And I think it was even some of the locals.
They were a bit like, yeah, we're used to getting sort of hot weather.
But even this is a bit a little bit too much for even us.
And we're getting, like, you know, we used to have in this sort of 30
weather, nine maybe.
I think it was one of actually seven TV.
So yeah, so it's one of those things.
And in some ways, yes, people fast.
Oh, in England.
Oh, yeah, it's raining.
And oh, it's eight-core, it feels cold.
Or may and it wasn't nice to sun out.
And we've got sort of three weeks of summer in June.
And then it's a bit of an odd one in a way as well.
Because the school holidays begin at the end of July.
And then it's all through August.
And then into the beginning of September.
But what happens is that some of the best weather can be that,
what that week they call mid-summer, for example.
But then the school is still on.
So when it, and then it also gets dark, I do it.
Like eight o'clock or something in August,
not 10 or nine.
So sometimes the schools are getting like from the worst bit
of the summer off, really.
But there's been like that for ages.
Yeah, it's, I suppose it's hard to budget.
At school.
At school.
Yeah, how long the school break is open?
Well, of course.
But it's the summer.
Yeah.
So we tend to tend to us.
Because November, December,
a lot of outdoor barbecues and stuff.
And then January can be as hot as hell.
And February, it's usually starts to cool down
and back to the barbecues.
Oh, yeah.
You were just southern hemisphere.
Yes.
By the time,
February comes or anything is brown and dry.
Tender, tender dry.
Oh, it's kind of like that.
You can get swimming in the sea on Christmas day, basically.
Ah, for sure.
Yeah.
So if you get, you get, you get sunburn in about five minutes.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I've heard that as well.
Yeah.
And sometimes in Australia, it really is like, you know,
if you, if you're out and about sort of midday,
or wherever the sun's at the strongest,
it's just not a good idea.
Especially as a tourist, I guess, that's not used to it.
Well, that's what I tell tourists or people everywhere.
I said, don't worry about, they worry about snakes and all that.
They don't worry about snakes and crocodiles and all that.
Don't worry about getting sunburned.
It's the biggest problem.
Yeah.
You're probably not going to see a snake.
And if you do see a snake, it's probably not going to bite you.
And if it does bite you, you're probably not going to die.
So don't worry about it.
And the sharks that might be in the sea as well.
Yeah, the sharks and the crocodiles
see off a few tourists every year.
But, you know, the stats are good.
Your rods are pretty good.
Look what?
Your rods are getting, it's very low chance
you're going to be one of the one or two tourists
that get eaten by a crocodile if you eat it.
That's about to get eaten, yeah.
As long as you're not, you know, like,
when you still do something stupid, they get drunk
and they go for swim in a crocodile and festive river.
What, yeah, I suppose so.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, December,
well, no, here it's like this.
So, September, well, all this sort of is the end of the summer, really.
September is kind of like, might get a bit of summer kind of,
but it's more sort of going to autumn.
So, it's getting a bit more cold.
And so, it's dark a bit earlier as well.
And then it's like, yeah.
And then we got toberware.
It can be a little bit like that as well.
But usually starts to rain a bit more.
And then the Vembo is basically a month full of rain for the most part.
And on top of that, it gets dark at like five o'clock here.
I mean, I'm half Swedish as well.
There'll be even earlier there.
But, um, December there's like three at the start.
And then it goes rain.
And the whole way, there's a mini lockdown here in the pandemic.
In the Vembo that two, three years ago,
because they realised that there's not really much going on in the Vembo.
And the bonfire night,
where the guy forks thing,
that he can kind of cancel him anyway.
And so, it's kind of say Christmas apparently.
But, uh, the, uh,
and then December is a bit like the Vembo,
but yeah, dark early and rainy and cold
and windy and gets really storms possibly as well.
And then my brother had moved away to, um,
my older brother to an island that's, uh,
associated with England, really.
But, uh, I'll Britain.
But, um, it's actually much closer to France than it is to England.
And, uh, it had some interesting wars in the past
between the French and everything as well,
like centuries ago.
And, uh, and even in Germans,
took it over when there was World War II.
But anyway, they, they got hit by a storm over there,
like in the Vembo.
And they got, basically, they're actually hit as well,
like hundreds of miles per hour as well, yeah.
So, it gave me some proper damage as well.
I remember, uh, learning in a history class about,
I can't remember the details,
but some battle between Germany and Russia.
And it snowed, had a very harsh winter.
Uh, it sounded, uh, terrible to say the least
and all these people literally freezing out there
and they're trying to fight a war.
Well, there's a story of what, like I said,
I'm half Swedish, but my mum's,
my mother died that she was finished, right?
And so, when, now, I think around World War II was well,
there was this cold winter's war in the snow,
and that's been snow as well, with Russia.
Because of Finland, that is right next to Russia.
And, uh, they had a war about,
I think the Russians wanted to have some of the land back,
basically, or had been Russia at once,
they'd possibly even, but there's, there's part of Finland now.
And so, yeah, I think it was about land for some reason.
Yeah.
So, they had started having this war,
and it was cold, it was winter,
and, um, sadly, one of my, well,
my mum's brother, my brother,
who was really dying in that war, he got killed.
But, um, they, uh,
and then Finland lost the war as well,
and he was buried on the side of the king's Russia, I think.
Because you never went over there.
But, um, yes, some of these wars and things,
and he had to, uh,
well, we say, well, why were we saying that?
But, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so, there was that,
when the Russians and the war,
and then they lost the war,
I think maybe they had to give the Russians some tanks
or something as well.
I think there was something else they wanted as well.
I'm not sure, exactly.
But, well, yeah,
but I've actually been to where she grew up,
which is interesting,
because there's such a river down the bottom,
and then,
because we were like 14 and 16 or something,
we were basically allowed to go near
to what they call no man's land, which is the river,
because on the other side is now Russia.
Yeah.
And then the story is also like,
if you go across into Russia without permission,
then it's a problem,
sort of thing.
Yeah.
Like, you could be walking a dog in the Finnish forest,
and somehow end up,
and it'll have to some guy around me,
and then it's like,
why were you in Russia?
And you're like, oh, am I?
Oh, oh.
And I do know quite.
And I remember going back down,
there was a tour,
a boat trip in the lake in Finland,
but then it's like,
hey, we can't go over there.
It's like, why not?
And they're like, oh,
because that's basically the border crossing
with the border with Russia,
so we can't really go over there.
It's like, okay.
So like, half way through the lake
is the border basically with Russia.
Well,
definitely some interesting history.
I think I read once about
there's a big area in France,
somewhere that's all things off,
because of this so much unexploded weapons,
the bombs, I suppose.
Or maybe it's some chemical warfare over there too.
I should read up on that again.
That was interesting.
It's a huge area,
all fenced off.
Due to some...
Oh, we're talking about the weather,
and I said, dude, no,
we're talking about ice,
I said the lake.
Yeah, now we go.
Yeah.
I said, yeah,
there's these two islands
between,
except England and France.
They're closer to France though,
in the channel,
in the channel.
And yeah,
so there was wind,
there was a storm and things.
But there's this castle.
I went and visited in
June when we went over there.
And there's a castle there.
It's been there like 800 years.
But when there was World War II,
because obviously France is about 12 miles away.
The Germans,
they're all,
they occupied France.
So they basically came over
and took over this island as well.
And took over this castle,
in particular,
and started using that as well,
as a base or something,
because it was up there anyway.
And there's some World War II history there,
and I have to go back and,
and like, see some of that stuff,
like the old hot wall,
World War II,
hospital and things,
there's certain things there.
But it was like the only place
that was basically the UK,
or sort of the UK,
that got actually invaded by the Germans.
At the time,
about the thing is Duke England
is quite a bit further away from that, really.
So, yeah.
I guess it would have been quite easy for them to have taken,
I would have thought,
because it's not a particularly massive island leader, really.
And then there wouldn't have been,
there wouldn't have really been,
it had much of a defence either, I don't think.
So, yeah.
Wasn't there,
people who think there was some cloud seeding going on,
over around the British,
around the channel,
at one stage,
there's some more of that.
Ah, some cloud,
someone said there's some cloud seeding,
someone up,
and put,
what do they spray up there,
is ammonia,
or liquid,
liquid,
to make it rain.
And it rained for about a month straight.
Remember, hearing about that,
is in the channel,
the British channel.
I don't know.
I'm going to Google it.
I'm curious now.
Yeah, there's some rights to be wore sometimes.
And sadly, the happening now was well,
you know, it was supposed to be like,
2020 freeds,
well,
it's a 2024 now,
you know what I mean?
And yet,
you know, we've got some
three walls going on,
things,
and it's like, why?
It's supposed to be like,
times now,
as well,
and mostly peaceful times, as well.
So we think, yeah.
But yet, there's still things that happen at times, yeah.
No, I mean,
can you hear me still?
Yeah, I can hear you.
Yeah, I'm just,
I've lost my,
um,
mumble interface.
I guess they won't bother attacking Australia
and New Zealand,
or they might do,
but,
there's still a little bit over there, aren't they,
compared to
any wells?
I suppose you've got the advantage that you can't just
drive over the border,
or, you know,
cross a river,
and get into the next country,
it's a bit,
a bit more difficult to get here.
It's a bit isolated, yeah.
It's about the islands where they aren't there.
Yeah.
And if they come in from the north,
they've got to get past
all the crocodiles.
I guess the link,
I guess the,
um,
you know, America's over,
but well,
it's weird
Pacific in a way,
isn't it?
How you can just fly
from, like,
California,
or somewhere down there,
and then,
sort of fly,
fly, fly, fly, fly,
and then suddenly,
yeah.
Because,
after some of online,
sort of Australia,
diversity in America,
and I was like,
I was like,
oh,
it's like a why, isn't it?
And then suddenly,
from a why,
if you go that way,
and fly, fly, fly,
on the plane,
you know,
you're in Sydney, aren't you?
Um,
but I guess the,
the America,
it's not part
of what we call
NATO around here,
where a lot of the
countries are
joined up together,
so that if one gets
attacked,
then,
the others will probably
help them out,
sort of thing,
yeah.
But,
I think that's the three.
I mean,
well,
you know,
there's nothing called NATO
around here,
like if one country gets
attacked as a NATO,
then there's a good chance
that the other countries
will help them out,
as well,
or possibly,
um,
it's all, like,
and stuff.
But, um,
and I,
and I guess Australia
and New Zealand
have probably got quite good
links with, um,
say America,
for example,
left something
was happening there,
I would have thought.
Now, right,
would you say that?
Would you say that
in Australia?
Yes, there was,
there was at the war
with, you know,
Australia or New Zealand,
or something,
some country decided
to attack them,
that America
would probably
come to your defence.
I think at the moment,
that's the,
that's what people
would normally expect,
um,
but it's,
whether it will actually happen,
or what scale,
I don't know,
and probably be best
not to find out.
Well, yes,
we can't want to
find out really, do we?
Just reading about that
thing I looked up,
um,
in 1952,
um,
one of the worst floods
occurred in Britain,
swept through
Devon Village,
wherever that is,
Devon,
I've heard of Devon,
I think it's on the,
on the coast.
One of the worst floods
occurred across the
Torsquen.
At 1952,
we started in Devon,
35 people died.
This is a torrent
of 90 metric tonnes
of water,
thousands of tonnes
of rock poured
off-saturated
X-Maw
into the village
just drawing homes,
bridges and shops.
So that's the one
that some people say
that the RAF
were experimenting
with cloud seating,
like taking dry ice
or ammonia
up into the upper
atmosphere
and letting it go.
I believe.
Here's an interesting
read.
I don't know how much
of its conspiracy
versus fact,
but it certainly
sound like it rained,
as usual.
Air dry ice.
They flew through
the top of the clouds
and pulled dry ice down
into the cloud.
And, uh,
it made the cloud rain.
It's a well-established
practice now.
I do it in the states.
Um,
the rumor is that
this was the one
of the first experiments.
Yeah.
Like totally different
topic.
But, uh,
I was thinking about,
like, yeah,
like,
like in the UK,
we have got
we're coming like,
we're not people
eat,
a lot of people eat meat
still.
That is definitely a meaty
country in certain ways.
But,
the, uh,
sort of veganism,
like, well,
very,
there's a bit of a vegan
hype in a way as well.
But,
the vegetarian vegan
true products are definitely
hitting off more,
or a bit more than they were.
Like,
that you can buy,
what we call,
we have, like,
corn products.
We do, um,
uh, mushrooms,
that's what,
and change it,
a bit Swedish region, I think.
Um, there's a
Fion meat,
American thing.
There's,
a thing there,
a sire,
etc.
There's,
uh,
various,
you know,
starting to be more vegan
and vegetarian products.
Um,
uh,
the, uh,
stuff that's just,
vegetarian,
like, in Africa,
they don't seem to have much of this,
because I've met some
Africans recently,
and they,
and they all looked,
they all seemed very
confused when,
uh,
I was there with, like,
vegan vegetarian products,
or any,
or, like,
what's this?
You know,
uh, that's corn,
or,
that's beyond meat.
Um,
and,
what I'm,
what I was wondering about
is Australia now,
right?
What's it like it up?
As they,
I mean,
I've had it,
there was some girl,
actually apparently,
Australia,
who calls some
problems for some guy
with a meat restaurant,
I believe,
and,
and there was some right
problem with that.
But, um,
is it becoming more
a thing over there,
as well?
Is there, you know,
is there a good,
a good amount of,
like,
you know,
vegan,
vegetarian products
available in the market,
etc.
And restaurants,
yeah,
the most,
most places have,
vegetarian options,
um,
probably less so vegan.
But,
there's a,
there's vegan,
well, we're both,
we,
we tolerate both vegan
and vegetarians.
Um,
but it,
it primarily,
you know,
meat eating country,
I suppose.
Um,
but,
uh,
it is,
there's,
certainly,
if you want to be a vegan
or vegetarian,
there's plenty of options
available.
Yeah,
yeah,
you're not going to starve
if you're,
if you're a vegetarian
or vegan,
come on over Australia,
we'll look after you.
Also,
in the UK,
we have something called
their January,
which I'd not sure what's
going on for,
2020 fall,
but,
I haven't really looked,
but, uh,
do you either
is that you can challenge
someone like,
right,
you've got 30 days to be a,
to,
to be a vegan,
basically,
because,
let's see if you can do it
or not,
but, oh,
that's not just that,
so, because,
obviously,
companies have,
kind of,
got a bit more
involved with it,
and may help,
and,
have some
products available,
make the buy
in restaurants
with all the shops
or whatever.
Yeah,
I mean, I've
consciously reduced the
amount of meat
that I ate.
I used to,
most meals were probably
two-thirds meat,
and now,
it's probably a,
you know,
a third meat
that,
yeah, I've done
very terrible
until 2013,
although,
well, I've had,
some meaty,
sort of things,
by mistake,
it turns out,
since,
but, uh,
I mean,
that, because there's
things like,
had gelatin,
and something,
that's one thing,
or you,
you know what,
rennet is?
Rennet?
That's not a one,
rennet.
No.
What's it?
On the cow,
and it can be
in hard cheeses,
or even,
or even alcohol,
beer and stuff,
people don't realize
it's going to be cash.
But,
some of the beers and things
are not made,
they're not really
vegetarian or vegan,
and I'm known this for years,
because of how they're
made and things.
All right.
I wonder what they're
putting in there.
Well, there's like,
the fish thing,
where they do
inkless,
whatever it was.
I think Guinness
were doing that,
but now, now,
he's stopped
apparently.
And then,
there's,
some of the beers
and, and even
wines, maybe.
They might have
rennet,
or I don't know.
It's,
there's things
that are,
it's annoying.
I went to a,
I went to a
vent, and I went to
brewery once,
in England,
somewhere,
a different city,
and I went there,
and I said, oh,
it's a very
terrible food,
there's nothing on the
menu.
It's like, yeah,
really?
I was like, oh,
can I,
I said, oh,
can I have a beer?
But,
I've never
about this
thing about
vegetarian
vegan,
if they're not,
or they are,
and I don't know,
and she was like,
okay,
we've got a brewery
today,
what I can do,
and check it
at the back,
and then she came back to me,
and she was like,
hey, can I have
this Hungarian beer,
if you want.
That's fine.
I'm glad they're worth
for it.
I mean, I'm like,
kind of lied to me,
but I thought,
okay,
far, Hungarian beer.
That's good.
And I found my city
and the big one
that you have,
and it was
in the old venue,
and it was like,
two or three tenths
there as well,
full of like,
beer and
alcohol and
spirits and all sorts of things.
Not just
because they were
going to sell beer
and everything,
that's fun.
Ah!
Because these were,
far,
a day new beer and alcohol
that was
totally fine in,
in the vegan perspective.
There's nothing
in-sector,
animal or
whatever and that,
you know?
which is funny because I thought the bee in its pure form would be vegan anyway
and the same with wine it's just what my I thought wine was just you know grapes
and water basically or scrapes crushed up grapes and then I don't know what
do they consider yeast is that yeast?
I was not going to buy a new yeast okay I was not buying beer like what got some
stuff anyway but I mean by looking at a shop online or something on a take
well someone's also might have bought something from you know and I looked at
some beer that popped up and he just said on there why Google the
particular beer and then it said basically because I don't know why but it
said quite clearly not suitable for vegetarian you know he's not a vegetarian
I am but I thought I thought well if it's not suitable for vegetarian I'm not
buying it anyway quite frankly and I know this so I didn't buy that and also one
year I went knowing this I went to Brussels this is going to sound silly in a
way but maybe not if anyone understands what I'm talking about I don't know if anyone's
actually hear this part of the podcast assuming it comes up and all that
you know but made either way I went to Brussels for a
positive one year knowing about the beer thing thinking like right I'm not
with where I'm vegetarian I'm trying to avoid egg like an egg in things and
what we'll do but I'm like I'll have milk by milkshake can I have I have to
vegan milk on a cereal from a cereal to pair around with but I knew about the
beer thing and I was thinking like well I've had I've had blonde beer and
Brussels anywhere Brussels beer it's right and I went somewhere with some
guys from my city as well because they will yourself be there with that here
that had the other events relevant and I went into this bit this bar or before I
went into this bar I would look at I'm thinking about my Brussels I should have
a beer really not coke because I mean there's lots of coke in Brussels you can
go in there and go I have a coke no problem but oh coke but I'm thinking like
well I'm trying to do this sort of I don't want animals or insects products so
I can't want a beer maybe actually because I was thinking like what beers are I
don't know about Brussels beer I don't have the same problem or what I start
looking on Google and it was like okay here's someone they've been in
Brussels it you have whatever beer and they went into they went so they had
beer in Brussels but I think it's at a hog farm playing or something and I was
like but that's a it was it was like it was like an apple I said no this
bit of beer is very terrible and it's in the hands of Brussels there's a hog
got I think it's a British beer so this is what it sounds kind of funny in a way
because when you get a Brussels you're supposed to have Brussels beer right if
you don't have a beer really not not right come in from England and now
I'm Brussels now I'm gonna buy an English beer because of what I'm saying but
even so yes I bought an English beer in Brussels in Belgium yes where you
supposed to be drinking Brussels beer really mean this year somebody insisted
he said to me you know if you're going to the beer then you'd better have
that a bit at least one beer come on and I was like all right finally yeah I
was a blonde again yeah well we we have a lot of beer here obviously the
no more alcohol in Brussels apparently as well the beers got quite a higher
amount apparently all right that is normally like four or five percent yeah I'm
sure there's eight percent but I looked up the agent or whatever it's it's
called it's just comes from a fish you look up they go up again it comes up from a
fish bladder and it's called eyes in glass and they use it in beer to get
the precipitate out the yeast make it clear so yeah it's part of the beer
making process comes from tropical and subtropical fish what does it you
risk or you car that's that's that's the fish product that they put in
yeah isn't is in glass yes I I S I N G L I S is is in glass on the other
side but um and of course some beer has honey in it which is probably okay for
vegetarian but not a vegan yeah well yeah I've had yeah basically yeah you can
have very Terry can have honey sure well I mean honey nice sometimes I don't
tend to have honey but honey yoghurt even actually yeah honey yoghurt is good as
well but obviously as a vegan that's that's a no-no because that's from a beer
etc yeah I ate a favorite of honey we've got a few um local a aperists
so that they call around they sell their honey straight from the I don't know
what they do with it they extract it somehow um it's good yeah yeah just
it this fish thing they had it in Guinness the Irish beer and crop of the
the cider from Sweden actually that they had it I think both of these got stopped
during that now we found another way to make it or something
but it sounds like it's just to make it look clear doesn't say it does anything
to the taste of it yeah but the finger the fits from the fish even if it's
just tiny little bit of something from a fish you know that's all that's
all it takes oh yeah I get that part of it but I mean in terms of the end result
in the beer I don't think it changes the beer much by not having it
seems to have pro production I'm not sure why it was done but
it just says it helps make it clearer it causes the use to get out of suspense
maybe they get the use out of suspension and they filter it out somehow I don't
know the weird one is when you buy like there's like a vegan kickcat
you know you have the kickcat as well over there I mean Nestle is fake global isn't it
yeah I've eaten a few things yeah they're good
have that over there they chop that bar Nestle kickcat yep we've got all that stuff all
the good stuff we've got you have those over there as well maybe yeah kickats
Mars bars crunches everything yeah yeah we did Mars and Twix and Snickers and
that's Mars but then there's Nestle with their kickcat and kickat chunky and
things like that yeah really have like a vegan kickcat more recently although it does
say on the back they're like oh it might have egg in it or something or it might contain
I've seen that with a vegan ice cream from someone Mars or someone before as well and
it so if you look at the back might contain egg that kind of defeats the whole point
then because if it's going to be vegan properly it can't have egg in it yeah they're probably
using egg in some other product they can't guarantee there's not
yeah well yeah cross-contamination yeah exactly I think that's all it means really that possibly
when they can other products nearby and so if you know on some sandwich some wave and it's
so it might have fish in it or pizza and you're like oh that should be very terrible but it's
a little bit frustrating that as well because I mean I do have fish at the beginning but then wow
the fish can feel pain as well also they probably can so they say and and also well I don't know
about you but I mean they say there's microplacid in the air and even like tap water and things
but definitely in the sea right so she eating like fish from the sea or things from the sea
then yeah there's a chance that you're eating some microplastic moisture on it as well some
or more yeah almost almost guarantee it but my theory is it just goes straight through hopefully
well that's the thing isn't it now I've seen stories like they found microplastic in bodies yeah
or or that maybe it can go into like organs or something yeah yeah that's the way you don't want
microplastic concentrate or maybe even baby you wouldn't have some in them or something
yeah yeah yeah yeah concentrating the ovaries or whatever that would be the concern
and I think they've any certain science around it but well they've done certain studies but I
think they're not to keep you sure so and then another one was about like I mean I think there's
a lot of stuff in bottles plastic bottles because well yeah I mean it's how it's sold that's how it's
sold a lot of drinks but but I saw a thing about how it had like different bottle water from
different countries and then and then they were to like experiment and that showed you how
you could on TV yeah I saw this for years ago but it showed you like different bottle water
from different countries or maybe even hating the same one really but with different
countries yeah something like that but it showed you like which ones have microplastic in them
or something and it was like oh and one theory was that maybe when we open the bottle we also
create some but I don't know oh I think it's everywhere I mean I come out it's not like a
string to drink now that micro fibers would be coming off or your clothes and everything it's
plastics it's just pretty much if you're aware now well yeah when you go out you can in the air
somehow yeah and you find it in tap water and then you can yeah we've done that we've
we've we've assumed we've you know we've done some bad things there really I don't think we
really know there's so many sources of potential problem is this you do the studies that say
cancer's gone up or whatever but it's very hard to find a this group of population that
haven't been exposed to plastic say for example so you can work out what the main causes are
because everyone's been exposed to the same stuff whether it's petrol fumes diesel
plastics you know antibiotics well maybe it's a bad like forest people that live in
certain remote very you said you live in a remote place but maybe not so remote because you want
the internet that's that you know like like there's some people that live properly in forest I think
in certain places that totally out of society and you know those kind of people but
that's a good point it would be good to see if it's been a study on some remote
exposed towns in Australia because I know they don't go and see doctors as often and often they
have conditioned they die of things that could have been treated they had have been identified
a bit earlier so they're quite a bit unique in that sense so and they tend to eat
fresher food they kill their own animals eat some of them do so it would be good to see if there's
any studies comparing those people with you know people from the city for example
but there are studies about tough one like the on the cooking fry pans yeah it's a terrible material
and it has serious health consequences and there's a lot of worries and research about tough
well yeah I've got a walk that's burnt again now wasn't there maybe the taverns come
either the non stick was coming off my I don't know I think it's time to get another one probably
but I've got a friend who said that to me he said to me like yeah if you if you drink it
taverns bad and if you if you if you like eat enough eat some of that it's not good
it's poisonous basically what once it's etched or if you cook on high temperature which is kind of
the point uh it leaches out there's a movie called Dark Waters with Mark Ruffalo uh that
follows the true story of a lawyer suing DuPont um uh in the class action lawsuit that is still
ongoing there's still not paying patients uh the paying paying pay defendants um medical bills over
me uh another one was the uh oh was it bp aisle that plastic in bpd uh I think I think I
think it's more an old way to the plastic bowl and then maybe America more so even but how
that was supposed to be bad as well apparently and then that's changed I think or when you
see Newark house I think and so if you have this one the plastic was bad as well
here I did hear that um there were concerns about deflon but I haven't sort of kept up to date
with the the progress that's interesting video I switched to just a standard iron fry pan
partly because of the deflon thing but also a lot of the deflon fly up and they're very thin
and they they buckle up and they uh they don't last very long so um it was a problem with them
but how was that the cheap deflon fry pans you get here at least they don't last very long
they they buckle up in the heat at the surface goes all brown and more non sticky or sticky
the non-stick stops working yeah well yeah they they call it non-stick frying pans and then you
can scratch them enough for whatever and then I know it's like oh everyone is this coming off now
partly a while I think most of what I use ceramic coated so the glass basically yeah I used to use
a lot of ceramic like tin plated tin ceramic plated tin um plates and cups and things but uh there
was a wall of those a wall back they should be quite common so uh yeah micro plastic is worrying
that's what we're talking about as a beginning I mean apparently it can do some damage really
if that's true yeah we know it's true I mean when it was exported to production was uh sent to
to China um uh not long after that we uh in the US some of the dog and cat food brands they found
contamination in them because the rice for the uh pet food was being uh packaged or manufactured in
the same building that they were spraying teflon on on products and it killed tons of pets in the
United States it caused uh crystals to grow in their uh liver and kidneys and they think it was
because of uh teflon in the same factories as the cat and dog food was being made.
It's like an interesting movie I might have to try and track it down similar to that uh was it
Aaron Brockovich I can't be bored who her uh issue was was it asbestos I can't remember something
like that. Hey guys how's everybody done? Hello Lovecraft? Oh somebody else is here finally yeah last
yeah I just got back uh we went out to dinner earlier how you doing born and see? I'm doing good
cool. Highland as wonderful. L is even more wonderful. Awesome. Why are you sore? We went to a national
park uh two days ago and walked uh several kilometers up and down in the mountains to view
waterfalls. Oh nice. That's pretty good Paul. Yeah well you try to flatten those mountains and
you're going to get in trouble. That sounds like you're having a great time that's awesome.
Glad else doing well as well. Well yeah well. Now it's nice hearing from the two luckiest
gentlemen in our little sewing circle. That's good to be good to be heard from but I know I don't
think we want to discount anybody else for sure just put the uh lucky folk out there. Yes that's
true but uh I have. He's a bit lacking this uh new year so he's actually not there so it's
nice for somebody else. Yeah they were just love that craft person. Yeah he's uh he's a good buddy of mine
sorry about that but I've had a kind of rough day too many jalapenos. Yeah I think I'm going to have
to give up on uh the spicy pizza from 7-11. I like it but my system tends to violently object and
uh sometimes you got to let the the hardware win. Just take the pepperoni then. Uh no.
They're actually their pepperoni is vegetarian. That's the highlight. It is meaner. That pineapple on
the pizza actually because there was a debate with some Italians about some that I know if two of
them if you know should have put a pineapple on a pizza or not but I don't know about you guys but
I do like having some pineapple on a pizza sometimes. It's pretty popular here it's good. I think
it I think Italians think he shouldn't have it. It's not the ways to do pizza but go ahead. Yeah pineapple
and ham they usually a lot of places around here called Hawaiian pizza. Yeah well yeah I was thinking
that too it's called Hawaiian with pineapple and ham sure but if you but I can put pineapple
on a pizza basically it's vegetarian let's say and and I'm going to be fine but it doesn't tend
to go on pizza otherwise. Italians in most Europe that tomatoes were poisonous for the longest time
well I've had although I guess well first tomatoes are in the nightshade family and nightshade is
definitely bad news and I guess if you eat the wrong parts of the tomato plant you will not have
a good time. Yeah I think it is an eggplant part of the nightshade family as well. By the way
I'm going to break bad news to you American guys but it's called tomato and the reason it's
called a tomato is because that is what we say over here in the UK and also we invented English
the real English British English. We now have some nice
where I like to elevate to and um apartment but those were Americanized words so yes to much.
I check it. To me there is wrong. What do they say? A culture divided by a common language?
Also actually it's a good one you know what a cure is and it really not a cure like in musical
composing or yeah I think that can be a cure as well but something else.
So I say that I go out somewhere and I stand in the queue. Cue sometimes you know what I mean
but you know I mean it's a line in a line. You do know good good good good because I went on a
video um speech thing in the pandemic or something and I think some of them looked at me confused
like what's a cue? What? Oh but they can't even go. I meant that yeah a line of people waiting
their time. Actually some years ago somebody had a Kiwi sticker on their vehicle. That's embarrassing.
And I was uh one of the few people who actually knew where that came from.
Chris said that. Yeah. The Australia didn't say that. Yeah we're always taking the mickey out of the
Kiwis over the pond. It's a flatless bird. But I thought to me he said that having the Kiwi
sticker on the vehicle was embarrassing yeah. Well no it wasn't it was a souvenir he got from a
New Zealander friend but no the sticker uh I'm in uh what is laughingly called New England
and we don't really have that uh many people who are familiar with your Nuka your Nuka
the woods so to speak. Mine or yeah yeah that's something else isn't it so I mean yes I knew
there's a place called New England in the America um there's a New Jersey alone. I don't know if
Jersey has any links so what I was talking about Chris earlier about the island channel islands
what germs get Jersey and Guernsey there might be a link although it order isn't I'm not sure
but also in Australia you've got places like what New South Wales yeah so there's links between
British and still isn't there. Yeah New South Wales in Victoria I think he's named after
Queen Victoria but I'm only guessing and of course Queen's land up north where all the
slow people live um in all the rest are pretty boring like South Australia,
Western Australia and Northern Territory. Tasmania I don't know what what the history of Tasmania
the name is. It's good doesn't it Tasmania? It is the island down the bottom.
Yeah I don't know the origin of that name but whoever named South Australia and Western Australia
didn't think too hard did they. It's named after it and then some of the place names of the US
that couldn't go by British name I think as well or the places in England can't think of them
out of something to them now but I think there are a few like yeah yeah we've got that in England
so it's been called that as well. Yeah there's a fair bit of that but yeah I just just uh
looked up Tasmania and the Able Tasman Dutch explorer. The Able Tasman was the name of the
ferry that used to go from Melbourne down to I think Hobart or Launceston can't remember
but that was used to be called Able Tasman and we've got a lot of English names I can't
I try and think of one. Hardleburg maybe. Is that English or is that German?
German. Hardleburg. I don't know Liverpool. Yeah yeah Liverpool. Yeah yeah. I've got a lot of
I'm just trying to think of some others now. City Liverpool. I don't know. I mean well you're under
and the so-called Commonwealth. Your Australia isn't America. You uh you basically uh
I don't know if you guys broke free from the British or whatever but um well I love the story as
with the fourth of July really but uh yeah Australia broke free as well I guess and so to come
I don't know it's still Commonwealth isn't there so although some people don't agree with
the Commonwealth and they're like why should the Queen of England or why should they be able to
come here or any of those people and they got like some sort of status symbol here even though
yeah my one agrees with it do they. About a push probably 10 years ago or maybe a bit more
to become a republic and they lost and the republic was lost convincingly.
Now republicans they wanted to make Australia a republic but they they lost pretty convincingly.
No I think. I think mainly because nobody could explain what it would look like. It's all very
well to say I we want to be separate from England that's fine but people saying yeah but what
does it mean for the average Australian and nobody could really put answer that's my impression anyway.
We all speak the same language as language with some state differences so yes I feel saying
that it's called tomato for example. Yeah but we can adapt like even when they say tomato I know
what they mean. Yeah I did do as well but I was saying another thing but we don't say
when I say potato we say potato. It's not a potato. Yeah well you know there are some things
we which are a little different like a car's wings which we call fenders in in the US.
What are we called mudcats here I suppose or bumpers. You guys have a trunk and we have a
big yep although I must admit that I've seen on some older cars some actual trunks
believe it or not they were. Sterling as well look um C-E-N-T-R-E-Center but the Americans
spell it the other way for some reason. Oh there's a lot of that is like culler and
yeah culler and fenders. Yeah favorite yeah a lot of the customise as a Z-Dur in this
is a lot of those little. We had a lot of that just in the same as well yeah.
We had thongs we were in our feet you guys called them flip flops. We call it what do you call it?
We call them thongs. Fog. Now thong. T-H-O-N-J.
Yes well in America that thong refers to a different sort of apparel.
In America that we call it a G-string but it can get very confusing when you have international
people you can talk about wearing your thongs.
Oh a thong. T-H-O-N-J. Yep that's it.
Although I think that's something else here.
Yes flip flops. I think the polite term is ladies knickers.
Yeah I know what you mean. I've got the image. I've got the visual image.
That flip flops is a good flip flops. For your feet and there um well yeah you can have those
on the beach I suppose. For your sandals in Australia.
We're taking drops in your flip flops at the same time. It's not going to end very well probably.
Especially if it was a hard object. Could we be like having it dropping on bare feet?
I don't want to call it nearly here.
Yeah I've done that a bit um it's not going to be a bit cooler but Australian work boots.
Well my brother is a long haul trucker but um compared to the Australian
variety he's a bit of a piker. Yeah how far do they normally drive?
But they're limited to 11 hours per work day and his truck is limited to about
a under a hundred kilometers per hour. He was at similar, similar rules here with
logbooks and whatnot but sort of um just out out west or fairway west and up north.
They've got road trains. I can't remember how many trailers they can have but maybe a prime mover
in three trailers, four trailers I can't remember. I've seen some pictures of those and my brother
has got a uh is assigned a substantial American long-nosed truck with sleeper and everything
but compared to those road train prime movers it's it's a bit lightweight.
And up until recently they in northern territory there was no speed limits so you could
go as fast as you vehicle on the road let you go. They're just introduced I think it's 140K an hour
I'm not sure. Well a lot of those roads are very straight and some of them are pretty flat so
well I think yeah so I mean thinking Germany for and in I mean they're like their fast cars
or so to say and having you got a road there where yeah you can drive very fast but and also in
England they've got like a national speed limit or 60 miles per hour. I mean I mean in the
middle way it's 70 miles per hour and as a top speed in most or in most of the middle way but
I'll see certain people are going to go it's 80 or maybe even 90 or a little part you know that's
but that's the motorway so it's pretty or cold and there's something right. But then there are
these like sort of country roads or not country roads but these sort of for main-ish roads and
in parts of them it can say you can drive 60 but then some of these roads have I like we've got a lot
of bends and stuff and it's a bit like really would want to drive 60 down there probably not.
Yeah my dad was from West Virginia. And some of the some of the roads there you have a lot of
rock on one side and a lot of nothing on the other side. You seem to be getting cut off was it
my mumble? It was alright for me. But here the speed limit in Victoria where I am is 110
the fastest roads and in fact it's common across most of Australia is 110 K now and they
if you get caught going above it I think if you listen 10 K it's on a 150 bucks but if it's
between 10 and 20 K over the limit it's like it's around a three hundred dollar fine and if you
get caught going over that you lose your licence for I think it's three months I'm not sure.
Oh yeah you've got a lot of people on there for two me kind of people just go any speed
completely or we'll be a right problem. I don't know if you'd drive out of it Adelaide there's a lot
of long straight roads and just pretty boring sitting on 110. So personally I think there's
opportunity to increase it but in some places that's just my opinion. Well I heard back in the day
I mean they've they've posted speed limits most places even in the western US where again
like parts of Australia and whatnot there's a lot of and my brother who's a long haul trucker
um we we joke about him if there's a middle of nowhere he'll find it with his long haul trucking
but yeah I heard that back in the day there were some areas of the wide open west where they
would just say resume speed once you got out of the towns. Yeah it was like that here before I got
my licence back probably in the 70s that a de-restricted sign which is a black circle with a diagonal
black line through it which I'm told literally meant it was unrestricted so a bit back then cars
generally slower than they are now but they didn't handle as good either so a bit plenty of
plenty of people rolled rolled cars back then got thrown out because they'd seat belts weren't
well if they were available they certainly went popular. Well I'm
as a kid I lived near the local police tow yard and I saw more
you know broken windshields one car rear ended a back hole and in the in the front grill there
was an impression of the you know of the back part of the rear shovel I think it even included
some impressions of like rivets. Yeah that'd be messy but just think about it out around
around here even this kangaroo is a problem and deer and then more out the central of the
Australia you get emus and camels as well so it's probably a fair chance you can run into an animal
if you'd drive it along too fast. Actually while my brother was trucking and one of his
earlier rigs he did get himself a deer of course on the north side of things we get pretty heavy
duty of with the North American moose and I would say elk but the moose is definitely the heavy
weight of the of the horn folk. Yeah it'll put a big dip in your car probably similar to a camel I
suppose there's more camels in Australia than there are in Saudi Arabia the interesting fact.
Actually back in the day back in the day the US actually had wild camels too. Probably the same
background they bought over for traveling and got let loose. So the animals you just don't
have a car in those animals definitely not they will not end well. Now I made them on hit a kangaroo
in a car and it came through the window. And then it's because it's set off the airbag and the
combination of the kangaroo on the air and the airbag on his lap he obviously hit the brakes
and slowed down but lucky you didn't hit anything else you couldn't see what he was doing.
We had to catch the ones up with the airbag and the kangaroo on top of them yeah.
Yep that's exactly exactly what happened then he had trouble getting out because he's got this
bit on the ground. Yeah and all the class and everything else. How do you get people some all
sorted in there? No you managed to climb out. That was right there. Yeah yeah I think he's got out of
the door but that car was that car was written off. I didn't get out. I think it's open the door
and got out but it wasn't it wasn't you know easy. You have to get the kangaroo off himself. Yeah
I push it to one side I suppose. Some of them are pretty big most of them are like not not too bad
but there are some big ones around. No I guess I was in the kangaroo as well then I'm all
up and then after they call the hand like you can't agree around. Oh not usually they usually just
get them off the road and they usually dead. In the old days every second person had a rifle
in their car and someone would shoot it but these days it's not the case. They probably just
put the wheels clean probably yeah. Yeah even the ones that get wounded they probably just leave
them on the solar road to die. No one carries guns around like that anymore so yeah so that's
probably what they do. Yeah and I don't think anyone wants to get close enough to give them the
coop to grow you know a good besides you guys probably don't carry hunting knives either anymore.
No it's probably not much of that going on these. Maybe in the air back probably a lot more guns
and knives around but certainly not in there. Do you know what a foxes or a badger? We've got plenty
of foxes here. No badgers, plenty of foxes. Do you know what a badger is there as well yeah?
Yeah I've seen them there like and white, white things. Yeah so we've got a lot of that in
well quite well well not as many maybe but there's enough badgers and foxes in the UK definitely
that I'll see occasionally you you day unfortunately hit by cars as well so you
actually might see like one that's been hit and what happens after that and it's not nice.
As I said side of life. Well around here we have a small small rabbits and
uh it was meant to keep them cutting off or it was just for me. Yeah I've had some audio problems.
No it seems to be okay for me. Yeah nothing sounds too out of the ordinary for me. That's strange
isn't it because of mine because everybody puts the idea for a man. Yeah well my audio sometimes flakes
but the the real problem around here we do have some deer even here in the suburbs of Boston
but we have a serious coyote problem. For some reason they've decided they've moved in even
into metropolitan areas. They're and they're pretty hard on small pets you know cats
and small dogs and whatnot. Yeah we have some parts of the place we have a wild dog problem
same sort of thing I suppose as a coyote but there's a bandy on them at the moment. 120 bucks for
a I don't know what you have to do I've never done it but you know 120 bucks to get a wild dog you
see the goers going out and they're huge. Are they are are those wild dogs wild dogs are they dingo
or are they different? Yeah they're wild dogs usually they're ex farming dogs or descendants of
so probably kelpies or blue healers or something like that but dingo is quite different and dingo
is a more prevalent sort of inland and up north and I don't know how much about it but dingo is
to me look more like a fox than a dog and sort of in the middle they're bigger than a fox obviously
but they yeah that's that that's sort of archioed I think is is like your dingo yeah by the way
by the way I think what you're talking about is a federal dog problem you know yeah true yeah
we call wild dogs with feral dogs probably a bit a night because that that way you know that
there well my dad used to have a camp up in Maine and he said the real he was a deer hunter
at least when he was sober and he said that the real problem they had was a lot of packs of
dogs from from the towns would get to chase and deer and the snow machines well in the winter time
there's a huge network of snow machine tracks snowmobile tracks all through Maine and once that
the snowmobile had been over it it made a super highway for the packs of dogs
yeah we don't have we have to snow here but not much but um big problem with the dogs here is they
they get stuck into the sheep mainly and that's what it's the main problem because some areas
up around a place called telling it are where they don't recommend people going bush walking because of
the the wild dog risk yeah do you have much radio use problem not that I've heard of um but
so I've never heard of it but I don't know for sure we've got it or not
well here here in America we some there's sometimes a problem with with some of the animals
getting rabies of skunks especially and some of the some of those you know sort of smaller or
medium predators yeah I just googled it and but at the moment we we don't have rabies in Australia
but I heard over there you have babies have rabies some babies are rabies um we don't have babies
one of that sort of thing for anyway well yeah we don't have those babies here yeah well I
yeah we have yeah you yeah well it's all you know um yeah yeah yeah you um yeah we have beavers
around here also I've I've recently seen a video about reintroducing beavers into some of the
western streams have helped regenerate the uh well water retention and and along the stream
beds which used to be just barren there there are uh thickets and stuff starting to grow yeah I guess
it makes sense they build their dams and creates a different sort of ecosystem for all sorts of
things yeah yeah I mean um the only thing that would have that kind of effect I think in you
you know Australia are the are the big crocs yeah that they mean that just eight people really
not a people but they do you think no well I'm I'm just saying that the fact that they're going
that you have an animal that huge and that heavy thrashing around in in your shallow streams you
know just probably keeps things opened up yeah true I wonder um I know there's a river not far from
here called the Murray River which is badly infested with carp and the carp to dig up all the mud
the bottom of the river and silt it up it's a big problem but I don't know much about crocodiles
I haven't spent much time up north and you've been up there a few times I've seen the crocodiles
they're not hard to see um they're they wouldn't say that everywhere but they're fairly common you
if you want to go and see when they're quite easy to find um but yeah I'm saying that's
plenty of carp you guys have carp over there to to European fish well are are your carp
European carp or are they from Asia oh I think they're European but you're the other one's a coy
carp I think I think the one's in the revisit uh European carp well I'm just saying and I know
that there there are a lot of carp from the far east yeah I'm pretty sure as a European I've
had people to call them European carp and back years ago I used to in the lagoon so
through bread in the lagoon then you see the bread popping up and down and you shoot them with a
22 because you can't do that now these probably probably won't especially draw back down either um
but yeah there's a lot of them what I found interesting was uh in England uh for hunting small
game especially your rabbits and such that they're allowed silencers all right yeah we've got
plenty of rabbits here not not a plague at the moment there has been in the past but
it's still plenty around yeah and I understand that unlike America because of some of the biological
warfare that was tried tried to kill them off uh there is they're infected with some nasty bacteria
yeah for years I've been using mixomatosis which I don't know whether it's a virus
um and it's a horrible way to die um you see them when they're infected with it and then they
reduce a release is called calisi virus as well um it keeps their numbers down I think and then
cuss the foxes get rid of a few and have various periods where they go around um guessing their
rabbit warrants to try and control on a bit that way as well I don't think I mean people shoot them
but I don't think that shooting them really does much in terms of reducing the population
kind of hard to reduce the population that breeds like rabbits yeah that's right literally uh
and people used to eat them I don't hate people eating them now um but certainly in the 80s
plenty of people used to eat rabbit yeah we have a very small variety that's
they call the cotton tail around here we we have uh essentially two varieties of rabbit here
um one is a small well bigger than a squirrel but you know not not too much bigger and that's the one
that I see a lot locally right around my house um but in the in the in the woods around here we have
what they call the snowshoe hare which gets pretty well gets ferrisized I mean it's not big big but
good size for a rabbit yeah we get a few hairs out in the the wheat growing areas
get the hairs it's probably set about a foot and a half high maybe a foot I don't know
never measured them but there's probably twice the size of a rabbit yeah that sounds about
right for for the same kind here of course um with our temperate climate uh the rabbits
change color you know they have a summer duller coat and then wintertime they turn white
yeah that's interesting as it normally just a brown pretty plank and brown color well yeah
but then you around here um the the camouflage is really needed um because a brown rabbit on
on white snow would would stick out like a sore thumb yeah foxes foxes dinner
uh yep although I gotta tell you we have some uh some nasty customers some weasels
and then we get the big boys the wolverine I've only seen that one at a long distance and I
would just as happy what's that like a dog sort of thing it's a big ass nasty heavy weasel
but the size of a medium sized dog all right yeah we have weasels um all you need to have ferrets
to go grab a deer so who's afraid of them well you have bees you you had you have your ferrets and
I think in Europe they have something that's a little different than a ferret that they
call a pole cat well okay it makes them want to have a ferret I never had them but the
ferreting often come back without the ferret I think got a while went down in the rabbit hole
like I had the rabbit and went to sleep I suppose well I mean I think in America there
they used to be used you know for vermin control uh rabbits a lot of your rats and mice
were controlled by fair by people you know hiring somebody who had ferrets
yeah he goes similar here but he never got in a lot of farms of course had cats plenty of cats
around for mice and rats because we had a big I don't know when it was but there was a massive
mouse plague quite a while ago um I see some of the video footage of it it's amazing how many mice
there were so I think after that generally farms had plenty of cats one of the things that I found
yeah I mean I come from farm stock on both sides of the family my mother up in Maine and my
dad done in West Virginia one of the things that that I heard was that the female cats
actually set up daycare for their kittens different females will mind the store while the cats
are out hunting food or what have you you know just generally just the cats that we've had
the female cats envy better hunters in the males for more what I've observed I just had a look
1990 was the mouse plague 91 994 was the mouse plague I was talking about and um millions of them
yep oh oh I uh another thing since we're on a technology channel a lot of studies in America they
had a lot of studies about the behavior of cats you know in a rural setting and they would equip
them with radio collars and track them and they found that a lot of the cats everybody thinks the
cats are prowling you know ranging all over the place but they would they would find that the cats
would uh you know they they collar them they'd let them go out and they get into the woods
100 yards or whatever into a nice nice place to curl up and sleep and that's what the cats
were doing everybody thought the cats were you know all wide ranging and all over the place but
much of the time they would they would just go out of sight and find a place to curl up
yeah a lot of carnivores are the same and they get fun some to eat and have a have a feed and
sleep for the next day well also the cats um and with these coyotes around here they're
they're on the menu pretty pretty hard of one of our neighbors warned us to keep our cats in
because the coyotes will just eat them and we had a cat that I found in my back garden it
it was dead and it disappeared uh the carcass disappeared after a while so something came by and
snarfed it up but the cats being the size they are yes they're a predator but they're also small
enough to be prey for some of the bigger you know our opportunist predators either either uh dogs
some of the wild wild cats that we have here I mean we have a couple of sizes in the country we have
bobcat or links and mountain lion so uh the cats are sort of caught in the middle
yes they're predators for for a lot of stuff but they also have to be ready to to hit the road
so that they don't get preyed on it's the food so I got it uh they reckon um most carnivores
are probably not preferred to eat other carnivores but yeah if they hungry they eat whatever they
can find I suppose yeah well also well I mean a lot of the carnivores here well yeah there
are some meteors but you know we have a lot of omnivores too you know that it'll eat what they
get and get whether it's meat or whatever yeah scavengers we'll get a lot of wild pigs and he said
he said wow some particular they eat anything everything I think sadly that's most people
omnivores and I'm saying because I always said to Chris I've done very terrible at 10 years now but
I used to eat meat but well I didn't really think too much about what we're actually doing here
and when you and when you look at the mass production of meat as well a lot of it gets wasted on top
of that and we you know we don't all this stuff as humans but the difference between us and wild
animals we get this people saying this sometimes as well yes lions are supposed to eat meat dogs are
supposed to eat meat wolves in fact they can eat meat war as well without getting sick wherever we
would get sick usually what does that tell you makes you think that should we eat meat but um it's
also just nasty because that quite frankly well yeah one other thing is about about my dad um he
was a lifelong hunter and he would hunt rabbit he would hunt deer in season um
during their rut season here in November um he even got himself a black bear
but anything he got he uh he would dress and I don't know he can never only keep on cutting off
of my my end but yes if you hunt me and have to kill yourself then and you're doing
for food as well that's a slightly different argument but when you just go to a shop or a store
then you can just buy it without any attachment to the animal that used to be alive well that's
that's the problem we have and there's a side to it well also um and this actually is linked back to
England sort of uh when my grandfather in West Virginia's dairy operation was he couldn't run it
as a as a milk operation anymore he would raise a black angus beef for slaughter unlike many people
I have seen and been leaned on by some of those big boys you know what you may see is a neck roast
in the supermarket I've I've seen what to hide on leaning up against me
I mean using me for a little fence post or something now it's rather impressive especially as a skinny
kid yeah but my you know my dad is as always dealt with with the whole livestock thing as
as a farmer does not not as somebody who just goes down to the market also around here where we
uh have knocked off a lot of the natural predators that hunting of deer and other game
is a population control thing because if the populations get too bad and we get a bad winter around
here you can get a pretty heavy die off because that uh heavy snow can can trap the animals and they
can't get food here's a common thing in it we had we upset the balance of nature and it
one side effect is some animals contend to breed more and become a problem like you say
we have a similar thing with kangaroos in some areas where um they used to cull them for
malief at pet food well uh they stopped doing that actually also a lot of the hunting a lot of the
hunting and other licensed fees are paying for the conservation and people keeping track of
animal numbers for for a lot of game species and in like that so you know a lot of it's uh
yeah you know a lot you know it can be a useful supplement to just letting everything you know
somebody's got to pay for the that ranger or you know warden or whatever you want to call
out pay for who have to work for peanuts though it's going on that minor
I'd have had a lot just saw the rattle going on of course these gentlemen from the common wells have
have a far more pleasant voice in my mind but i'm just trying to keep up my side from the common well
who's in here from the common well well we have an Australian we have some folks
a variety of uh british uh we had some folks from england i think all over
course great that's crazy Australians yeah yeah well wouldn't it get me under the last time
I spoke to you you were um setting up a nice little one-liter system and I wanted to ask how that
turned out well i'm pretty satisfied with it generally lately one of my systems has gotten a
little flaky on the audio side but right now i'm talking on a i5 one-liter system with a couple of
screens and uh 16 gigs of memory and nice little system sounds pretty good how's it doing power
well they use a sort of laptop brick so they're pretty lightweight and again the one-litres are
can i do it like seven watts or something you know not raspberry pie but damn close
um i've got a small form factor which
um has a 180 watt power supply but is pretty efficient and
um haven't used it much or haven't set it up yet but it's you know some of the some of the stuff
once you get away from tower systems can be pretty efficient i think anything other in the tower
is pretty uh efficient i know mine is not exactly efficient at all but i love it and i can't
get away from a tower i love the modularity and the fact that my hands actually fit inside of it
all of that is just a balloon yeah well that's i mean i i had a whole bunch of towers here
and i got rid of fall but a couple and there's one that i built but i haven't really used because
power prices just got too high up here now if you'll excuse me gentlemen i have to
step what that's quite all right i see we have another gentleman in here who's that Chris
yeah yeah how's things happy new year it's it just heard new years on this hand
happy new happy new year to these coast we um 16 hours ago for us here 16 hours ago so you're
you're the uh all-stray and uh weird old then everybody else is is probably a sleep or something
by now and you're the only one still up that's okay that's afternoon everyone else here be
heaven the barbecue and drinking a beer i suppose most people just do it
what people know and stay is that mornancy oh look it's king
oh look it's king happy new year happy new year i'm just uh heading off to bring my daughter to work
so thought of popping and say hi and uh wish everybody happy 2024 here here
how are you doing some kind of that i'm doing all right uh feeling pretty good i uploaded
a couple of more shows knocked them out pretty quickly just to get the last two out for 2023 now
looking forward to clearing up the backlog on 2024 except saw them already pop them into the reserve
key there so i have i have two i have a show i don't know if it's worth doing i replaced a phone
a battery and a phone and replaced a fan in a oscilloscope but they're so specific to the models
that i'm not sure there's any value in posting them other than to say i did it well i mean we
are talking 2024 now so that the fact that you have a phone you can replace the battery in sounds like
you know oh no there's a story about that we need to hear that story that it's interesting
by itself that's my question that's a phone battery can be replaced oh can it now what want to
tell us all i want it okay guys okay guys i'll talk to you later somebody's good not using
headphones you should really use headphones all right again take it easy good day
avalan and phone guy at work who replaces screens and batteries and parts inside they have this
little heating pad metal heating pad and you dial you dial the temperature to the temperature
that the sealant the epoxy it seals the phone and and instead of those i fix it videos where people
use the heat gun and and it takes an hour to get the back off of something it's just like three
minutes at a specific temperature and the back just peels right off and it'll replace the battery
and put it back together i think my next is six p the i fix it video said it was a four-hour
process and he did it in like 10 minutes okay because what this is starting to sound like is
those guys who tell you that or you can run Linux on anything or you have to do is write your own
kernel that kind of thing i'm sorry it sounded like what did i are using push-to-talk or are you
using an active voice i think you might be using active voice because it it cuts in and out at
different like odd periods more than see i'm using push-to-talk all right i think you might be
or or you might have a delay on your push-to-talk to where it either you're letting go early or it's
it's cutting out earlier something like that i paused before talking and i'll pause before releasing
sweet sweet so that that tool you were talking about the metal thing that heats up and helps release
the epoxy in a reasonable amount of time is there something average consumers can get their hands on
or do we have to sign our souls over to apple to get it i just did a google search and i found some
different looking pads for heating up phones immediately not the same one but i'll keep looking
and see if i can find the one he uses okay and uh what what's a key word for that search just for
those of us that are going to be doing the show notes later on you got a key word we can use
if we wanted to look that up is it like heating bed or heating pad or or uh something like that
i will keep searching and i will figure out a good set of key words for the search
one of the first results said thermal pad and when i added thermal to the search i'm not getting
anything accurate well heating pad and uh LCD screen separator machine which may or may not
oh it's it's hot hot plate what is this h what's that is it's is this the same hp low crack
oh yeah yeah that's me oh hey what's going on man not much than how you been all right cool
yeah just i just turned new years here so it was just outside for a little bit
oh happy new years yeah happy new year to you too if you've got it already not your rewire
yeah we just hit it about 11 minutes ago oh sweet okay yeah we're in the same neighborhood then um
yeah i've had pretty good luck with the uh with the one leader is i'm having reasonable
luck with even a late model pie pie for one system which i haven't had good luck with is the
pie 400 don't don't get me to rage in about pies but where you uh you interested in picking up
the uh newest addition to the pie family the pie five i think the pie five for my typical use case
which is doing a lot of youtube doing would be it would be a very sweet machine and with an
appropriate cooling solution wouldn't be bad for for many server use because it doesn't have
say to i'm staying away from it well i i've been running my pies with usb3 to say to adapters on
ssd's and stuff so it's been working all right yeah they do work all right and i got a few of the pie
fours still in here and i'm gonna run them till they don't run no more and um i'm not sure if i'm
going to update to any of the newer ones until they sort out that storage issue because one of the
things i'm very upset about how they took this whole industrial path where basically it's a toss
up rather not you want to call it an educational board these days yes and no it's still possible
to use it for learning purposes but the the path they took with the whole shortage uh supply shortage
still has me a little frustrated how they catered to industry over education but that's
neither here nor there what i'm upset about is you still have the credit card size form factor
yes up until you need to do anything with it besides put a case on it and then you have to get you
know a daughter board and and ribbon and everything else so you're basically purchasing a one liter
PC but in a very terrible form factor at the end of the day you're much better off with just
getting in the x86 and i i'm just wondering why well i think again for for my use case
just running a couple of screens and a couple of web web browsers the pie five looks pretty sweet
um yeah but the the pie also uh yeah it depends depends on how power sensitive your
your operation would be uh you know uh yeah the the pie five uh is well it's a it gives my one
liter is a run for their money as a pure desktop well see one one of the things that i i was looking
into it actual playback on the pie five it still does not meet what i what i i think it should be
as far as like a 1080p 4k playback because the pie four was advertised as a desktop replacement
and i think that was a very big stretch um i also don't like those silly little uh hdmi ports that
they put on at the micro hd i or whatever whatever they're called um so i think that the playback
just doesn't match up i don't know if that's like a hardware acceleration issue or whatever but
it seems like it seems like i can do much better well i'm again i can't hold on one second
momla could you use a push to talk uh there we go what we what we got here is uh now i'm not even
looking at 4k application i'm looking at 1080p or there are very close to it for for my applications
and my old eyes and with that limitation the pie four pie five well the pie five smooths out
some of the bumps that left over from the pie four but you know they're they're adequate like
like you you know they're they're well they're sort of like that what like a modern netbook actually
i asked my friend for the name of the device and uh he gave it to me and i posted it in the
mumble chat along with a link to amazon and i think it's a fun heating station is uh what you
can search for yeah uh yeah speaking of pies i've i've got mx linux cooking on a on a late
model pie pie four the late model pie four is the 1.8 gigahertz stock clock machine uh which
a pie for the pie four hundred has a good processor but unfortunately the power connection
the pie foundation cheaped out on the power connection a little too much at least on my on my
example yeah thank you uh more than see i went ahead and copied it just now into a quick low
note pad so i couldn't respond at the time and also the um get the pie four hundred um i didn't have
any problems with it uh i only had one that that well the other one may have died too but uh so far
confirmed only one that died and it was in use like around the clock just running next cloud
it's it's a decent little server so long as you're doing like single application use or whatever um
the pie five i wanted storage not not mainly because i didn't want to store anything on it but
it that was that's like the missing element though to be able to boot and run off for something
other than the usb bus uh the same person at work my friend who uses the heating pad uh just bought a
pie five with a one terabyte nmv drive in it and he says it it's booting from it great i'm
i'm anti pie ever since they removed the ability to get the codex for the gpu so now all the decoding
for graphics is done by the cpu which overheats the pies and burns them out um i believe the orange
pies have the video codex in the graphics card and so you're not using cpu to transcode
wait i mean i thought it was a software issue though that like didn't fedora went through the same
thing uh the video codex you have to purchase the graphics card if you don't purchase it for the
graphics card the cpu does the transcoding right but i thought uh maybe i'm understanding it uh wrong
like i might be thinking it's something completely different but i thought that that was something
that the user could add on later on like it wasn't packaged with the os or whatever but uh maybe
thinking it's something completely different completely correct you had to purchase the codex
directly from uh vick and mpeg codex the vick the bicc for television and mpeg for movie decoding
you had to purchase the license uh directly from whoever owns that and you had to get the
serial number from the gpu uh off the pie and then you had to lash basically flash the firmware
with the code that you get back from them i have a pie one that decodes uh plays movie and tv
recordings uh flawlessly uh whereas uh my pie three struggles because it doesn't have that in it
and now it's no longer an option for the pies you can't purchase it anymore well yeah me and archer
were talking about something similar that not too long ago about how licensing between uh service
providers and manufacturers end up screwing the end user and what a situation like this we keep
talking about um was it uh was that new uh it is not new uh av1 coming out and how uh that's
supposed to be the new big thing or whatever uh intel and AMD are supposed to be making that a
a better option so that way we don't have to rely on Nvidia i don't know much about the
uh about that but the the uh the gpu um or the uh or there's a way to add it later and the
raspberry pie foundation shows not to add it to the pies when they first came out and uh haven't
pushed or weren't able to get it added later um there is one of the things that i must mention
uh the pie five um for one thing it it has PCI bus uh has a one lane PCI bus option built built
into the uh the uh the board also the pie five has a far more robust usb3
environment than than a pie four now my guess is it would perform or it would be best to use it as
just an edge device where i'm assuming you're feeding the uh storage there was something like NFS
or whatever and uh in operating it that way but yeah i just i'm stubborn i just gotta argue with it
yeah well i'm i realized yeah there i mean they're getting they're getting right it they're
getting right in uh again uh i'm dealing with power limitations and stuff where
where a pie five might fit in long term uh more as a desktop but uh again i haven't tried the latest
mx pie uh to any degree and it might it might surprise me or it might be adequate for what for my
pie four at the moment so i can take my time upgrading to a five i haven't even checked out rather
not again the decent cases for with um with all the new expansion through daughter boards and
everything that's uh coming out with it is uh flurker or geekworm or any of the seed studio any
of those other guys came out with any um decent cases for like a aluminum cases or anything like
that for a pass of cooling because uh from what i from what i see from raspberry pie this is
going to be a active cooling situation due to the additional power that the uh CPU uh well the
additional heat that the CPU puts out well um it it seems that the pie four
was right at the functional limit of passive cooling uh pie five running at any
re any sort of real load um it's definitely going to need active cooling
i'm also a grab oh trying to keep up with them notes but um yeah i'm thinking the active cooling
is going to be the uh big thing with it so where you get that benefit of not having a fan noise
or whatever and you can have the device relatively close by that's what i enjoyed the most about it
there were a few times especially if you're using something like the um the argon one case
and this is with the pie four if you're running like the argon one case and you have the uh the
m2 style ssd's in there those things get a little bit hotter than like a two and a half inch drive
and then you start to get your fans kicking up then with those type of drives in there but the board
itself didn't didn't feel like it got any hotter the um the the m2 case which has an aluminum
top and a plastic bottom would keep the CPU cool but that that that drive is what was adding
the additional heat and that small form factor yeah i've had that's the one thing that some of the
one layer boxes when you use the uh the uh m2 drives they they do i i am getting some
heat uh issues or or error codes which are indirectly related to heat um one of mine sends me an
error code that says please clean the uh uh the filter the the air filter and there really isn't one
in this in this particular configuration so the the error code is is being generated by a
machine that's unhappy with its cooling um yeah uh also i got one of those uh argon one cases
but bad soldering on the hdmi connections made it unusable i mean if i had the right soldering iron
and was willing to uh melt the solder blobs that they put put anchoring and anchoring the hdmi
connections and wake up a bunch of the excess solder i probably could get something out of it but
it was just just a pain in the ass and i ended up not using that case i like the form factor of it
it it makes it nice and small and it gives you your um it transforms the two uh mini to the full size
hdmi but um the fan was a little bit of a uh i think if i remember because i got two different
cases that required little uh adjustments to get the fan to work is like a pie script or something
like that you have to run to get the uh fan to auto um i think by default the the fan is always on
or something silly like that and you have to run a pie script to um to get it to give you a decent
fan curve i i really haven't messed with any of that i mean um i think i have fans in both my 8 gig pies
but i'm not i haven't really messed with the fan or whatever um
um
also i uh
i have heard that a pie 5 can run on the older power supplies but it is going to be real happy um
so you know i'm just keeping an eye on things at the moment going to see what my finances are once
once i deal with a few things and then then look at it but the pie 5 maybe
something that i just got to keep uh you know nice to have but i've got
sufficient more than sufficient machines for what i actually do
it's the same here and one of the one of the things that i think about when getting a new machine
is like okay if i'm going to be decommissioning an older machine or something you know it's
it's on its last legs and i need to upgrade for something a little bit more power efficient
and uh you know power for it at the same time then that's where a new pie will come in
right now and i have an an old laptop that i'm running a few services on and it's doing a
a bang up job the only problem with it is it's one of those cheaper laptops that has the plastic
shell so each time i have to open it up to like swap out of driver or something like that
on the inside the shell that it's in just gets a little more the rickety and terrible so
so as long as you never have to touch it it's perfectly fine but i imagine they will come where
i'm probably either going to have to just you know it's going to be more duct tape than shell
or or i'm just going to have to get a new one yeah well i'm
um as i said i've got got this pie for running a couple of 1080p plus well one of them's 1080p flat
and one of them's 1920 by 1200 um and that's putting the pie pretty close to its limit
i think for for video and stuff i'm not i'm not even looking into the 4k side of things because
i'm i can't afford the 4k style screen yeah i'm i'm a i'm a savage i i don't even do a lot of
1080p most of the time be honest with you most of the stuff that i watch on like youtube or whatever
i watch 720p just to keep the bandwidth down but outside of that i mean i'm an audio book guy anyway
so if i can get audio books and podcasts i don't need 4k
well that that's just it even on youtube if you look at what they're actually delivering
if you look at the actual video quality settings it's not even 720p unless you set it
uh their default is somewhere around 480p yeah they default 480p and i think they changed that
um roughly after covid hit when everybody was well actually i don't know let me not speak too much
on that but i do remember them talking about a change around that time when it was more work from
home happening across the industries and there's more bandwidth being used by users they made an
adjustment or or talk of that during that time yeah and i don't mind it's just it be honest with
this it's just not a lot that i want to watch that especially that comes from like a movie studios
and things of that nature you know the the Hollywood type so whatever they don't produce anything
that i want to watch anymore um most of the stuff that i want to watch comes from just your run
of the mill content creators but the thing is with them nowadays like if you try to contact them
and say hey look you make a good product if you put that on the desk i'll buy it from you you know
what i mean you don't have to overproduce it or anything just let me purchase a physical thing from
you and and i'll be i'll pay double of whatever you want just to get a physical thing from you
where i can have that and it it doesn't even have to be like a DVD disc that i put into a DVD
player and play it it could just be the data files on the desk just let me buy the desk from you
and i'll be perfectly fine but um yeah that's a big ask these days they want you to gain access
to their content through their new app and it's like no i don't you don't get it i don't want to
lease the content i just want to own it i want to purchase that and have it offline
what i never have to talk to you again unless i'm coming to get more content yeah well the one
one one thing that that i did save out of a machine that i scrapped i have a blu-ray writer um
hold on hold on give us some details now we're talking we're talking to uh was it the five and a
quarter bay or are we talking at two and a half they're like the laptop one five this is five
and a quarter oh baby did you get an enclosure for it haven't yet got the enclosure but uh
nor do i have the media but but but i figured that it eventually might be worth putting in an
enclosure yeah that that's another reason why i love having a desktop i definitely still have a
blu-ray desk and matter of fact i updated my blu-ray desk um well actually upgraded to a blu-ray
desk i should say to correct myself it used to be just a cd dvd uh desk uh about maybe four
years at three four years ago something like that i went to um uh what's called micro center
and they had these great deals on just a simple blu-ray desk and one of the reasons why i
purchased it the way they had it packaged it wasn't in a fancy box with nice colors and things
that nature it was literally the drive inside of like a thin plastic cellophane sitting on like
the floor stacked up just a bunch of them and i thought they were like refurbished drives or something
and i was like no those are all brand new that's just the way they shipped and i was like
deal give me give me one i mean i haven't i haven't spent the money for the for the case
but uh i figured it was worth salvaging for you know kangaroo sp3 case all of it now where you go
i like it because i like to own my media now because i got a kid i understand she's gonna want to
watch certain things but i'm i'm breaking her out of it by introducing her to basically her own
creativity and things of that nature um i have to admit in early days okay girl like you uh hey
peep peep jay you uh how you doing today i think i'm much richer or something fall asleep if you want
hey you your your private conversation is being made public peep jay i don't know if it is it pet
i guess it's supposed to be peter or something like that i can hardly make it out myself with
lower case yes i peep jay
you have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work today show was
contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click
on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for hbr has been kindly provided
by an honesthost.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on this otherwise status today show
is released under creative comments attribution 4.0 international license
