Episode: 4468
Title: HPR4468: AI Trap and Fix
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4468/hpr4468.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:59:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4468 for Wednesday the 17th of September 2025.
Today's show is entitled, AI Trap and Fix.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 5 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 breaks the icons on his system and gets things back in order.
Hello, this is your host, Archer 72, for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, I continue to fall for the AI Trap.
Here I was mining my own business when I was bothered by the icon only showing a generic
icon for the beeper app.
Now, I'm not saying that duck.ai is not useful, but be careful what you ask for.
It was probably a combination of the early morning and not reading completely through the
AI suggestions, but I ended up losing all icons on the Nome Desktop, except for a few
like Firefox.
I won't leave the problematic command, so I don't trip up a listener, but it involved
updating a desktop database.
This in turn left a dash or blank where the icon should be.
If that wasn't bad enough, it was suggested to reset the Nome Settings, and nothing was
as a seam before.
Things that I had taken for granted were not there.
You forget what custom settings are there when mistakes like this are made.
So the short answer is that the icons directory located on my Debian system should be located
in .local slash share slash icons.
Instead it was in a sub directory.local slash share slash icons slash icons.
Everything the directory location solved everything, but I was still left to reset my
custom Nome key bindings.
One key binding was to swap the escape and the caps lock key.
I use this because I am a vim user, and this feels more natural when I need to hit
escape to change modes.
The Nome the setting under is under Nome Tweaks, Keyboard, additional add options, and swap
escape and caps lock key.
As of this show, release the current stable version is tricksy, and can be installed by
pseudo apt install Nome dash tweaks on any Debian based system.
The next is the compose key.
The compose key is found at settings, keyboard, compose key.
I selected the menu key because this is rarely used, and can still be accessed by the track
pad on my laptop.
Next I frequently use a shortcut to open MPV with a clipboard URL from YouTube.
This can be found in setting, keyboard, view and customize shortcuts, and custom shortcuts.
And the shortcut that I use is Shift plus control plus P. And the code for this is placed
in U.S.R slash local slash bin.
And this sets the URL to what is selected by the clipboard with XSEL.
Now I can get back to what I started in the first place, creating a desktop file for
Beeper.
I created a Beeper desktop desktop file in dot local slash share slash applications with
the following contents.
Under desktop entry, you put the name of your application, which in this is Beeper desktop,
the executable, which I put in my home directory under app images.
Next you set the icon equal to what I have.
What I have is mine is under dot local slash share slash icons slash beeper dot PNG.
The type equals application, the categories equal networking, and instant messaging, terminal
equals false, start up WMC class equals Beeper.
The last part of the config file can be found by using an x prop pipe and grab WM underscore
class.
That's all I have.
What do you as a listener like to do to customize your desktop to make it usable for you?
Feel free to leave a comment about what you like, or better yet, record a show of your
own.
This has been Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
The hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honest host.com, the internet archive
and our things.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
