Episode: 4314
Title: HPR4314: 24-25 New Years Eve show
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4314/hpr4314.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:57:58

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4, 314 for Thursday the 13th of February 2025.
Today's show is entitled 24-25 New Year's Eve Show.
It is hosted by Honki Magu and is about 109 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HBR community comes talk-hether to say Happy New Year and chat.
How do you use the script for a long time?
What script?
I have a command line script that you can use to post.
When you're awake and have some time, could you do a show on that?
Because I'm looking at redoing.
Well, I have to take over from Dave's written a script.
So I'm going to have to see if it causes him a lot of problems and I want to see what
all the people are doing.
Is archive.org accepting?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, are they?
Oh, well, I haven't stopped this script, but it didn't realize that they're still accepting.
You know, it can be a sec.
Because I have, I drew my editing through a sock script that Jason Ben Gumpster, Fleab,
and I put together and it basically does all the editing that I wanted to do and then automatically
uploads it to use the command line script for archive.org and I'm actually pushing it to
our account.
Yeah, that's exactly what I'm looking for.
So how other people have approached it.
But I mean, I haven't taken in my recent ones enough and published because even with archive
that already down, I haven't changed what I was doing.
And the last time I had was still 250, at 258 right now.
Yeah, at least what I have is episode 250 from August 16th this year.
Okay.
Often the auction next time, the strip runs, if there is an error or something.
Just then I tacked on the end, like we were talking yesterday, I have an orange pie now
that does the, that host my audio files, which I mean, I just got it, it's a four gig orange
pie.
And if it's not going to make a difference, whether it's the four gig orange pie or the
old pine 64 that I have, I might just put it back on the pine 64 and find the better
use for a four gig orange pie, which is still very confusing as to why they're not
it seems to wordpress, it seems to have a hard time with the MP3 file, timing out when
it tries to check whether you know, check the validity of the file, the times out when
I don't have the MP3, but it doesn't seem to have any problem really with the org.
The weird thing is it times out, but then I mean, I just publish it and then just let
it sit for a while and it takes a while for it to kick in, but once it does, it's there.
It just seems to want to take its time, just confusing as hell.
Oh, I know, I should probably post two places, hey, we're going to be starting soon.
Yeah, okay, I'll do some of those as well.
What hashtag were we using?
I don't know, HVR New Year's Show.
Sure.
I don't know what I used in the past or if I used any.
Yeah, I have been using HVR New Year's Show all one word.
Yeah, not very good at social media during the club.
I just kind of check it occasionally.
That's about it.
Okay, here we are, 13th annual 26th Eleanor New Year's Show's about to start, it's just
about talking blah, blah, blah, podcasting on the hashtags, listen to the live stream and
put them in the hacker public radio.org live because it's readable, more information
in the hacker public radio level.
And the leisure, I can reply with a join a mumble and PC client to all the people who just joined
the ambassador long.
Good morning, Craigie, quite a lot of you.
Oh, dang.
I'm looking at the logs of the HVR server and I was going, what the hell just happened?
I just looked at the listeners, but we went from, let's see, jumped from 31 or back down
to 27.
Yeah, there's the raw bots, there are masterdom bots looking at the live, I'd say, get live,
social media.boss, they're all checking, just checking the links, that's fine.
Oh, okay.
That's a good word.
Boosting and replying and all sorts of investors weren't sent because it's Twitter's, but
I have posted Twitter really.
I have had a total of two engagements from two people, I mean, the whole year, and those
are people I directly addressed, you know, hosts, who I know, Twitter accounts.
And the only in response to their own show, zero feedback from Twitter at all.
On the other hand, we joined in 2008, so why stuff now?
But it's really annoying, like, upgrade, thinking, you look at your, you go to the master
done from page, and it's all Linux, tech stuff, and you go there, and it's like fashion
ads.
And I have no idea what sort of profile they have of HDR, they're, yeah, they're script
in work and very well.
Some reason, good stuff, and they made something in Chinese, about phones, creators for you, lots
and lots of ads.
Any, that's a bite of my, I haven't been on Twitter in years, I haven't been on for
HDR.
Right.
And only because the length of the text that you can send was so short, and master done,
I can send, like, the whole summary of, here's the, here's the episode, here's the synopsis,
here's the hashtags, you know, and then taglines hit, you know, HDR, lots, creator comments,
etc.
All in one post.
And then I tend to reply to that as a human, gone with my thoughts on the show so that
I can use it on, being to use actually this, but on Twitter, you get like one line and
then a link and half the time I'm already evolving the limits.
So I'm going to post on HDR, I need, what the other half of the post is, adds myself
to respond on to HDR, not that anybody, that we get any engagement from Twitter, anyway,
still.
All right.
So I posted to the two places I'm going to post to, I can do, let's test the same post from
Masternome and try and post it on Twitter, and I bet you it won't work.
You mean?
Yeah.
Halfway through.
So if I get rid of the 39, you know, it was about to start and all we'll be able to
know paragraph about what it is, you know, so all I have is this on the live stream and
more information.
I might be able to keep some of the hashtags if I'm lucky.
The interesting to see, will there be a flood of stuff coming in as a result of that?
Let's do it like for like comparison.
I'm taking to ever since I've upgraded the internet archive thing, I've been monitoring
the logs here, like just tailing them on the HDR server.
It's quite interesting, which is also good because I've been able to block a lot of
scrapers, taking thousands upon thousands of sessions of the server, AI crap.
Okay.
So all I got is 13 manual show, the live stream, more information and see what happened.
And that's my alarm for the new year, which will be starting in five minutes and still
loads of master done stuff coming in.
Not a thing for Twitter, I'm very surprised.
Twitter is about me, master don's about us.
Yeah.
And now I'm seeing actual master done hits coming in, you know, links and people going to web
pages and stuff like that, which is kind of cool.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Okay.
The internet archive and Nordic excellence, elegance, that's what we have on Twitter.
Very good.
At least there was a post that might be interested in it.
Okay.
What are we doing?
What are we doing?
What are we doing?
We be me.
We have stream up and recording.
Yep.
Back up stream is up and recording.
Yeah.
That should be enough.
I need my, I was going to record here locally on this laptop, but I need it today because
I have a backlog of shows that I think you posted.
You are joined.
Archer 72, 72.
How do we know this is actually Archer 72 and not somebody pretending to be Archer 72?
What's he doing up at this hour in the morning?
Probably just logging in, but it looks like he's already muted.
Twenty seconds, guys.
You do the intro, yep.
Sure.
Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
Happy New Year.
We even remember who the first people are, who's new here it is, it is Chris decided
way to go with that professional intro.
You're welcome.
If anyone wants to continue, well, technically I've been recording since I first got on.
So her intro is actually going to be, I was talking about posting the places and whatever.
Let's see the official intro.
Welcome to the 13th annual 26-hour New Year's Eve show, but as you don't know, New Year's
Eve, the 5 o'clock in the morning, Eastern Standard Time, and exactly, again, if anyone
has listened to the Linux like cast where I do this, I say something the exact same thing
twice a month for the past 10 years, I still fumble it up, 10 a.m. you see 5 a.m. Eastern
Standard Time.
So recording going in the HBR mumble room, yeah, and it's going to run for 26 hours, which
is going to be 12, 12 UTC and 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.
I'm not going to invite anybody to join because if you're either listening to this, it's
already happened.
And if you're already here, it's probably July.
Oh, yes, yes, excellent, excellent.
Well, we have some ground rules this year.
Come on, I like the ground rules, but I put the ground rules on the mid-page.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay, for those that don't know, Polkay suggested this back in 2011, and I'll read
out the blurb.
As podcast tends to be a woodware conversation, he thought it would be nice to get all flasks,
the next three culture podcasters and listeners in one place to get together to chat and
person.
Initially, it was planned for just a few hours, but we kept missing members from all
the part of the world, and then the show was extended to welcome every time zone into
the new year.
And of course, that actually turns out to be 26 time zones, and for the first, for the
people listening to this for the first time, yeah, you think just 24 hours a day, but
what actually happens is that the international deadline, if you happen to be a country, an
island or something close to an economic region on one side that's ahead an hour, and you
want to be in the same economic region with them, equally, if you're on an island that's
close to somebody on the other side, and you want to be in the same region.
So that's why it's extended basically a few hours.
So we will be recording this for at least 26 hours, but we'll continue recording the
after show.
I'm actually off all week, so I'll just leave my recordings running.
You can take down the stream, obviously tomorrow, but we'll keep it running.
And while this is a HVR site, it's a community initiative with heavy support from the fine
folks at the Linux loadcast, to be honest, if it wasn't for you guys, this is what can
be running.
And the mobile server is provided by Delwin, and traditionally, we have had the show
notes done by the guy in the internet.
And the other day did love craft.
Love craft.
Sorry.
Step on in there.
Not good, because they don't get enough credit for this.
So cheers to those guys.
Yeah, they do awesome, awesome job, and they like doing it, and that's, I don't know why
to put.
Okay.
Taking advantage of the poor people, okay.
So we're recording this and mumble for next year, if you want to tune in to the 13th
14th annual show, then this one is the 13th, but if somebody is listening to this in July,
then therefore, therefore they want to plan for the following six months.
Yeah, we recorded a mumble and live stream out to your servers, lives, and then the, yeah,
that's it.
So live stream off to jitsy as well.
Does it feel into jitsy?
Well, no, so jitsy is just a servant add on if you feel like, so it's going to be something
that's open and available to the community during this, that if they want to see some of
the people who are participating, jitsy will be open minutes audio from that.
So you put your video camera on and you use yourself in the jitsy.
It's jitsy is usually automatically muted, but usually just make sure that it's muted.
And then so the audio will stay the same.
And again, it's just sort of an add on the logcast on the logcast.
We have both going and what Danny does is takes the, he records on mumble as well.
So he does a separate recording.
Then what I you, I record, I do recording.
He doesn't recording his recording.
He sings up with the video from jitsy and then he publishes it to YouTube and he sometimes
just chops off little bits of it and does like shorts because our podcast runs an average
about three hours.
So he'll take like little bits like if we talk about Firefox for a while, he'll just
take the whole conversation about Firefox, publish that to YouTube and then put a couple
hashtags about saying Firefox or Steam Deck or something like that.
Sometimes we get more views just from conversations about other things.
Actually we get tons of views when we talk about the other things than just the whole podcast
itself.
But we chat with each other, I know Joe does a lot of 3D printing.
So he likes to show off his 3D printing stuff, which doesn't work very well for the listening
crowd.
But if the YouTube crowd can see what he's been working on, he tries to describe it as
best he can.
Cool.
I'm going to add that link.
So that link will be in the show notes, the show notes page will be on.
Can you paste it into the chat here?
Oh yeah, put the links to the show notes on the main page now.
Yeah, I'm going to switch over to, is he posting that to elements?
So it's in.
Oh yeah, I got it from there, actually, but I can get it myself, although I'll add it
to the show notes.
Okay, the ground rules, why you're doing that?
Not that.
Not that anyone's going to hear them, but it'll be interesting to the people listening
to see how these work out.
So the ground rules are push to talk, but so many people on the chat, you must use push
to talk.
If there's a problem with your setup, please drop and listen to the stream, trying to
correct poor audio and post is a lot of work for me.
Actually, for you, you do that, the thing of the show.
So somebody else will have to do it.
So please don't just drop, if you have a crappy audio drop.
Be polite.
When you enter the room, please do not interrupt ongoing conversations.
Wait for a pause in the conversation and say, hi, it's quite common for people you
might not know to join and which to speak to other people in the room, who you also
might not know.
They have been waiting all year for this chance to meet.
So please give people the space to have these conversations.
And the next one, do not announce the time zones with the exception of the first and
the last one because there are so many time zones.
There is no need to interrupt the conversation to announce each and every one.
I think there's 36 from the last check out that said, it looked very well.
That's the link in the show notes.
If you're joining from a time zone that is switching to the news year, then please wait
for a pause in the conversation, but wish happy people, which people are having new
year.
Kiduki, next one, don't fill with dead air.
This is a relaxed meet-up, not a traditional radio broadcast.
If there is no conversation going on at a given time, don't fill the need to fill the
dead air.
Before the recording is posted, as a podcast, the silence will be truncated, silence will
be truncated.
There's a t-shirt there.
Anyway, do not monopolize the conversation.
Please be mindful that you or the beverage of your choice may be speaking too much.
And then you are a guest, be respectful, and remember that your attendance to the New
Year Show does not constitute a HBR episode.
And everything is being recorded and released a CC by SA if you're not happy with that.
Drop.
Everything will be released as a podcast under the Creative Commons Activity and Share
Life for not all international license.
The recording will be released mid-year when there is a low in submissions.
Super.
That's the ground rules.
Let's see how that works out.
Pingers crossed.
I don't think people will have an issue with it.
It's just things observation.
The only other thing is that you hear, how is your year, man?
I tell my story.
And then three hours later, somebody asked me the same question and I tell my story again.
So you end up hearing the same person's story 15 times.
That's not something that we can stop or prevent.
Actually, I don't think we want to stop or prevent it because it's interesting to get
all the people's perspectives on all the people's ears.
Yeah.
Go to sleep.
Go to sleep.
I'm here all day.
I'm here all day, folks.
If you want to drop off, feel free.
There's no need to.
Everything's up and running.
We're golden.
If you have other things to do, do other things.
I made a take-up on it in a few minutes.
But I think what's going on.
I do want to get that link in, yeah.
Which one?
The Jitsy one in the show notes.
Let's see this.
I'm dang.
Jitsy's a pain in the air.
I mean, if you're perhaps a pain in the air sometimes, let's make sure that it's
actually there.
Yeah.
It's there.
Refresh your page.
Your etherpad page.
Should I hope you'd be there?
Yeah.
Cool.
Etherpad is a great tool, but it's kind of a pain in the ass at times.
What's she trying to use it on mobile?
At times when you're using it on mobile, where it'll, like, it won't let me bring up a keyboard
to be able to type it all.
It doesn't, like, it'll show the page and I'll start typing and I won't do anything.
But I don't think I've had, I've had minimal problem on just a straight up web browser on
a computer that I have in a mobile.
It's happened before we all start typing and then I somehow disconnected from the server
temporarily and everything I typed wasn't there anymore.
Look at it.
No.
So right now, you will with with archive that org when I was down, you were hosting your
audio on multiple places.
Yeah.
So I'll send you a link in the show.
So I'll send you a link and I'll put them into the show as well.
I'm trying to update the main website just to put that link in just as a by the way and
having to push all down my push to talk button as well, just complicates things.
Anyway, let me see, put it into the etherpad, yeah, it's in there.
So what we did was we built a, there's a PHP script, we put our audio.
So when you have your audio ready, it goes to a central, central place where we can,
where the other sites can are synced to and only the other, so the mirrors, right?
So I edit the show, I upload it to the, let's call it the origin server and the R,
CP or R sync, so it's up there.
Only the mirrors can access that origin server.
Every half an hour, they do a nursing from their, from the origin server down to them and
they're running Apache or NGNX or something very basic, HTML only serving the web pages
out.
Then on the HPR website, I have the image, all the files replaced with CD, with the,
I see if you go to the HPR site.
And then I hover over one of the links and it goes to all the links are replaced with,
so instead of hackable.begradio.org for such apps or such HPR 4282 for such HPR apps 4282.org,
it puts us hope.hackable.begradio.org for such CDN.php,
question mark filename equals, and then the path to the file, and then zoom off it goes
and it goes to there on, on that script, it's just a round robin, random thing, where
it will randomly go to one of the three locations.
So we have currently a location in, we still have the internet archive now, Dave has managed
to get the uploads working on that, and we also have a location here, my house, I've
got a gigabit, gigabit fiber network connection, and this guy, I have a server just sitting
here, with a one turbine drive in this, and he talked it that to a four turbine, which
I'm working on, and then Ron has got a jobless in New York, and he's hosting servers there.
During the meantime, we've had two other people volunteer to host one at an actual ISP
data center, we won't be able to do work on that until the new year, just to time pressure,
but equally I can't work on it, and then I have another location in the Netherlands,
two gigabits fiber connection with UPS, the full Monty, and I can go whatever I want in
there, and that should also be okay, so that will give us four locations, and basically,
yeah, that's a place.
So you're using the most of them being published through either like an Apache or an X,
just regular, cheering up the file?
Yeah, so it's mostly this whole thing came from when we used to have all the files on
the main HPR server, and we had PHP, Apache, everything.
So every time you hit the main page, you run a lab stack, it went gone from the database
and generated the page, and it was very expensive to do.
So we switched from that to doing a static site and redirecting to the internet archive
for all our media, yeah.
So we have a static HTML page up on the HPR website, and it goes to, if there's a media
link, it redirects to the internet archive, or did, and the internet archive went down
for best part of three or four weeks, and then we put in this content delivery network,
which I had planned on anyway doing in the past, and I've done some testing on it.
But Dix makes it so that we can regenerate all of our sites statically offline and push
it up to the anonymous.com, who Josh Knapp does your page for all our hosting, and that
makes it a lot less expensive than computer terms, because you're just serving text files.
So there's no database queries, and we're trying to hide all the database queries behind
the same server, but on hub.hackerpublicradio.org.
So that way we can separate later the hackerpublicradio.org onto multiple sites.
So we also have hackerpublicradio.com, hackerpublicradio.net.
We have hubbypublicradio.org.net as well, all of which could be on different servers at
different people's houses, essentially, and then if hackerpublicradio.org is being
degased at a given time, well, okay, no problem.
You can just go over or hack a hubbypublicradio.net, which ideally will be hosted somewhere else.
And then, so each of the mirrors should get their own top level domain, one of the top
levels domain.
So yeah, does that make sense?
Yes.
So where is the server that does the load balancing?
That's Josh's one.
It's anonymous.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I think it's an Amazon dropless.
Okay.
So I was thinking about that we could, based on DNS, do a redirect to a hackerpublicradio.org
or hubbypublicradio.org or other random news on bugs.
I'm not that far.
Right now, you also heard that David is retiring as a janitor, not leaving the project, but
retiring as a janitor.
So a lot of the work he was doing, basically, it hours a day, we're having to take over.
We being me at the moment.
So I've moved a lot of the updates, when you record, you show a lot of the work David was
doing was fixing the show notes and getting them, you know, correct, looking at the images,
tagging them and all that sort of stuff.
That's something I want to get rid of all the different formats that we supported.
So now you just have, if you use JavaScript, if you don't use JavaScript, you get the
same form.
So everything is exactly the same.
If you do have JavaScript, then there's what you see is what you get editor or busy week
editor.
And you can add formatting, like, hit one, tags, line items, links, images, the full
amounty on to that.
And then you can have your show looking how you want your show to look like.
And then that makes a lot of less work for us.
However, once I did that, that broke all the, it broke the sequence with which we processed
the show notes because first they did the show notes.
But now we'll be doing it as the last part.
So that required a lot of rewriting, which is done and seems to be working.
However, the images are embedded as a data stream in the upload that comes to the server.
So there is no good tool to strip those out and all the other tools, except for grip,
can't deal with a replacing an image just by root force.
So Dave has gone and written a tool to do that for us, which is cool.
But that part of the check, I still need to, there still needs to be manual intervention
at that part because somebody can be just spamming us, you know, sending the show.
And it could be like the HTML could have all sorts of crap in it.
So that always needs to be manually checked.
Another part is done and then yesterday I was, and the day before I was working on,
as we were doing that for some reason, Murphy and his relations decided to come over for Christmas.
And everything broke with my transcoding script.
So I thought it was only going to be working on one half.
But I've ended up having to rewrite the transcoding script as well.
Cause socks broke, FFN paid broke, the whisper text to each thing broke.
And I still can't get it working.
But that's fine, I'll leave that.
I have two work, three workarounds.
So we're okay.
Something to do with my laptop, perhaps.
What else is broken?
The, oh yeah, how did, how did socks and FFN pick break on you?
Just libraries, Fedora of 41 libraries, just ours, just complete.
So something updated and then something was incompatible and everything.
Oh, I got you.
Yeah.
Another one I had was like, suddenly one of the files turned bust to Unix Windows line
terminations or filings had spaces or all sorts of.
And you're working on one change and like you just made a change and it's broken.
Oh, yeah.
Like four hours looking at it.
And then it turns out that actually the change was, you know, in the background,
you've done an update and it's broken something or a location of the server or the SS.
SSHFS connection that you're built on was as gone, ah, it's just been a slug.
But on the good side, I've been doing a novel of documentation of the code and the
principles behind why, what we do, why we do what we do, which will be coming out on
the third of January way before the year this.
So go back and listen to it.
Because it's a, it's a very different philosophical approach that we take here in HBR without
code.
So, so does that, anyway, this is just me bitching about how I've spent literally the last
10 days doing nothing but HBR stuff.
No, I feel on my free time.
Three hour, 13 hours a day, 30 hours a day, ah, that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We're getting feedback.
Greetings from Kentucky.
Hi.
Can you please put on headphones?
I'm adding that to the list of stuff that we need to morning soul spider in it minor.
Good morning, chaps.
I'm on the mobile app using a closed room, nobody worked around.
Is it getting feedback?
Yeah, you get feedback when I talk.
It's coming back via your, your handset.
Okay.
No, no bother.
It's fine though, but you need to be very careful to turn it off when you're talking.
Yeah, I feel you have some of the chain with our crap that we've done it screwed up a
lot of stuff.
And, I mean, I've, I've had, we've basically had the same set up since we first started
up.
Um, Tony, um, Tony from the Sunday morning Linux review got us set up with the way
that he was posting stuff back in the day.
He actually got us set up with some hosting too for when we first started.
So, uh, basically he was, uh, WordPress and then a, uh, plug in for WordPress called,
uh, very press or power press and, um, basically the back end has changed, it hadn't changed
because he suggested using the archive.org and so we've been posting everything since
the beginning.
If you go to archive.org, uh, like I said, 250 of our episodes, plus whatever extra stuff
is all on there, um, and then, but I mean, I've had to change the website several times
and then, um, there's, uh, lost contact with Tony and, uh, went to hosting juror, which
was free for a while with, but with a free version had a weird thing where it was, uh, down
for one hour.
That was it, but it was free.
And the webpage is just basically, I mean, it's just a static place to host the RSS feed.
So I didn't think it was going to be too much, but, uh, for whatever reason, the free
version kind of cracked out on me or ran into some issues.
So I want to pay for that for the, uh, pay for hosting at Hostinger, but it's still relatively
cheap.
I mean, about once a year, I'm paid for the, um, for the DNS and for the, um, the, I have
the domain and then, uh, Hostinger and that's really about it.
With the whole back end with archive that or going down has really screwed things up.
And then, like I said, I'm hosting it.
I'm using, so I'm wondering whether, um, is that told you my issues with that the, uh,
the power price plugin doesn't seem to have a problem with the org that usually finds
that pretty easily, but the MP3 seems to lag out and time out and it gives it a little
error.
I'm wondering whether if I put it on, like, uh, instead of using the, um, Python script,
which by the way, it's like a three line script.
I don't want to post it somewhere just so you can see how simple this thing is.
It's a little three line script that, uh, and it works really, really well.
And, uh, whether if I use something like an engine X and then the, whether it will still
have the same problem or not, but the timing out, let's find that script, but we were also
talking, um, Danny was talking about hosting some of the, uh, files at his house and
then, um, using, uh, one of the methods of, uh, load balancing, whether or either
road, uh, round robin or, uh, something where it, where it, uh, twos is which, which one
has the best connection to it?
Yeah.
I was looking into that as well.
So I have also, um, each of the locations, a, uh, speed test running every 15 minutes.
And we also have, uh, and that gives you a GIP number and location.
So we would be able to, my plan is eventually to do, uh, load, uh, load cheering across
that.
As Robert the Bruce said, by try, try again.
Exactly.
That was a nice search.
I had to search my room to find the USB C to headphone jack adapter.
Ah, you got it.
So now you're, you're sorted.
Cool.
Good stuff.
Nice to, uh, nice to finally meet you, the person.
Likewise again.
So, okay.
Does that answer all your questions about the content delivery network?
Yes.
I think so.
It actually makes sense.
Now that you've mentioned it, maybe we should have a chat about it, it doesn't actually
make sense.
Also, creating our own content delivery, community content delivery network, if we could
share it, then you, I have no problem with you using my, uh, uh, my resources.
Uh, yes, that might be an idea.
Take it just a generic thing that, uh, links freely, open source, pre-culture podcasts,
and take advantage of that network.
Well, there would be some design required, but yeah, not undoable.
I don't think I'll take your total silence as being.
I'm sorry, I didn't want to have the clip and going on in the background.
Please, all enthusiasm for my.
No, I found the, uh, the one line Python scripts that I used to serve up the audio or
serve up files, basically, or just trying to put it into, uh, I have very clicky keyboard
that I wanted to go over.
I have, and I can't see it.
All right.
Didn't I?
Basically, just Python-m, uh, HTTP server 8,000, yeah, let's do it.
And then just go to the IP address, port 8,000, and there's all the files that in the directory.
How is your authentication on the GZ?
Um, not, I mean, the server gets started up by, uh, the host, which is Danny, and once
it's set up, anybody can, uh, get on.
No, let's ask an authentication, where this is a new thing for, uh, for, uh, GZ requires
to log in in now.
I will try, I'll try logging in with, uh, GitHub or something, uh, waiting for a moderation.
The conference has not started because no moderators have yet to arrive.
Uh, I mean, Danny has been, so he set up the room, but he didn't set up a moderator,
or a live logged in, or a radio logged in.
I can, I have, uh, his moderator credentials, so I might be able to set that up.
I'm going to, uh, nip and get a coffee, it does.
Sounds good.
Testing, testing room 23.
Hello.
Hello.
Part of the union.
I see you can't touch me, I'm part of the union, you can't test me, uh, I got a pair
of union socks from the, uh, tech union thing in, uh, on-camp, cool, uh, about four years
ago.
We had to go on the strike.
So I spent about, I was at 10 days walking the line, that was fun.
We, uh, I had my own little action recently for, uh, the, as a cost saving measure, tradition
in the Netherlands that's, uh, on the 5th of December, you get a chocolate letter from
your employer.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, and some of them are really nice, like, you know, filled in whatever, but no matter
if you're working up like shitty jans, street cleaning outside, yeah, everybody gets a
chocolate letter, cost saving measure, we don't get one, so we haven't got one for
a few years.
So this year I went down to the, uh, discount store and they were selling the chocolate
letters for like two for whatever.
So I bought, uh, 20, 20 euros worth of chocolate letters, printed off the union, sticker
on it and go, happy new year, join the union, 50, put a lot, give it to everybody on the
floor.
Nice.
My boss's boss's boss got everybody deserves a chocolate letter.
There you go.
Ken, this is the first time I'm known that you are in the Netherlands.
Oh, teaching about that.
Can't you tell from that?
I did not know that.
I'm shitting in the shitting room.
You have a heck of an office there, sir.
Yeah.
And you know why I did this?
The rest is a mess for those, because on teams, uh, because I've run Linux teams, obviously
doesn't have any of the functionality that anything else does.
So I then decided, people were commenting about how messy my desk was.
So I did the ultimate tech cabin made it nascent clean up, but they can actually see from
it.
Exactly.
Yeah.
All the, all the older people there as a complete total mess.
Yeah.
On all they dished out over the sink probably isn't great, but yeah, anyway, it's on the
edge of your, you know, sink that's quite an expensive, it's around the world.
Yes.
I'm not an expert, though.
I'm a Dutch person.
I'm characterized.
I'm Irish actually.
Am Irish and Dutch both the nationalist in Ireland, I'm a nationalist in the Netherlands,
I'm an objection to that, but I look at me.
Am I Irish?
Not anymore.
Am I Dutch?
Definitely not.
So I'm Irish.
And do you laugh that after 25 years here, I can call myself Kentucky again?
Yeah.
Can't you tell from my accent?
25 years, that's a whack.
It is indeed.
In fact, I'm 24 years here and I'm 25 years old today or not today, but it's a 25th
year.
In fact, earlier this year, I realized my passport had expired.
Is there anything more American than your passport is firing when you don't have your
wallet?
Well, it's harder for us to go to places.
Well, my folks have gone now, so the reason to come home is a lot less.
Saturday or that.
I always thought that not having a passport thing was weird until you go to America and
realize how physically big the thing is.
Of course, you don't need to go to America to see what's going to make you something
as you can actually download the necklace.
If I put like the distance from, say, Kansas to the east or west coast and do that from
Ireland, like, I've never been to some of the countries that would be the same.
The same distance away.
Actually, there's a map thing where you can then superimpose countries over countries
home.
Yeah.
In the last couple of months, my wife and I have actually been the Detroit price.
And for us, it's like a whole day drive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For some, I went to, sorry, go up.
No, I was just going to say, we drive down to Florida where my grandparents just live
and now my parents have lived and I mean, that's, that's from, I live in on Cape
Cod, Massachusetts, which is that little arm sticking off of the United States all the
way down to Florida where Fort Myers where it's basically like 20, it's like this.
Oh, it's like 26 hour drive straight.
Yeah.
That's a much driving for me.
If you hit it right, it's not bad, but it's not often that we've hit it right.
We hit it right like once and we just kind of like, yeah, it was fine that one time.
And then what by the time you actually make a two destination, you're so freaking exhausted.
But I mean, it's, it's cheaper than flying.
It's a massive pain in the ass, but it's cheaper than flying because if we fly down there,
then we have to run a car when we get there just to get around and stuff.
And I don't know.
We're going, we're actually going to a universal next year and we're debating, depending on
the cost of flights, whether we're going to try and fly over to try to do the long 26
hour drive again.
Yeah.
I just overlaid.
If you go to true size.com and I'll put the link into the show notes, obviously.
From where I am, I would be going to Kazakhstan or Iran or Kyrgyzstan places I've never
been to.
I, you know, not that I wouldn't want to go around anything with just not adventures.
Okay.
Posted.
I feel better now.
I can look comfortable doing the face.
Be a little crushed.
Okay.
My silence is they had to balance my push to talk with visiting a certain little room.
Can you want to know why I'm up so early?
Tell me, Erichert.
My wife has to go to work today and then Thursday and Friday and we are both of us on
contract or have very people broke past year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Actually, that's so blame to you.
Yeah.
He didn't give me up last night, it's surprisingly.
How do I sound?
Wonderful.
We really need to clarify which server we're going to be using for the annual next year.
Well, it's on everything else, everything that we've posted the links to.
I mean, the HPR site, the, I posted the links, yes, but last, you see, when we had trouble
with the old server, we were using the Danny server.
So the, it was posted almost anywhere except in the logcast.
All right.
We'll try to clarify better.
Okay.
My priority is to get tomorrow's show posted, get distracted by shiny conversations with
people I haven't spoken to in a year or ever, actually.
How have we ever spoken, honky?
Besides here?
I don't think so.
We've emailed a lot and then we've done, we usually spend a New Year's Eve from
like the first hour or so talking and then, yeah, no, I don't know, I don't know, I
don't know.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, yesterday testing, I don't know, did I ever make it to a community news?
I know there's several community news right, try to make it on and it just didn't happen.
Yeah.
Speaking of which, where need somebody to volunteer for the community news next week on Friday,
the third, if someone's around, although now they think about it, my, something just
come in.
My daughter is in care, my daughter, my youngest is in care, who's in care last year,
but moved.
And it's been, it's been a disaster.
So a lot of my time or I'm not doing HDR stuff while I'm not doing that stuff, I'm doing
HDR stuff.
That's gone.
So that's why the HDR show jumps around recording times.
And usually Friday afternoon, I can record it, finish work and then go into the meeting room
and work and record it there or record it here afterwards.
So although I think we have some sort of employment and elements, some sort of person about
something.
So I will see.
I won't see.
Valencia.
Dave is stepping down.
So we need somebody to volunteer to kind of manage the community news thing, just basically
a project manager is what I'm looking for.
And he's visiting, you have to put them onto the camera and say, have them say hi.
Okay.
Just a good morning.
Good morning.
That's a lovely voice.
Yes.
Yeah.
We need to come out because it needs so much to do.
No.
I just came down to see.
Okay.
And I was going to go on.
Okay.
Good morning.
Morning.
Yes, you may.
I forgot to push, press push to talk, saying hello, so it must seem very rude when your
daughter was on say hi, sorry, very early here in the morning, it's an art, but a plunker.
It's fine.
Okay.
What else?
By the way, what do you mean early in the morning?
Sorry.
Yeah, post and chills.
Okay.
Next one.
You know, using your little map thing here, I don't think I ever realized that Australia
is what the same size of the United States.
Yeah, that's massive.
That thinks fucking huge.
Yeah, I think there are three times zones in Australia.
I'm going to go quite for a while because I'm going to start working, finishing off the
HDR transgoating stuff as we have a backlog of shows waiting to get posted.
Okay.
So, everyone, since Archers here, I'm going to thank him for my involvement in HBR.
He's the one that really pushed me to get involved and they have two shows in the
map belt.
They want one to be published.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'll post it shortly.
God.
There's always somebody like, this is a volunteer effort, you know.
Can you do a good job?
I'm just thanking him.
I can do it.
Sure.
Sure.
You're welcome.
I'm working on another show myself using, again, my record player.
How good?
Because I have a box right over here.
See the mess.
Sorry.
That's post to frickin' talk.
That there is all my archive stuff, those photographs and stuff.
And there, which Henmerick is going to be helping us with.
And then the audio, there's two boxes of audio tips in at the back, which I'm waiting
on you to send or send a show about Alpesa's line, it's in principle.
Now a show.
Thanks, Mike.
Ken, how are people seeing your odds to mumble?
Because we also have a Gitsy stream just for the video.
Freaky, I know what it works.
In fact, the lip sync is kind of weird.
It's fine.
If you go to that, if you're a main website, you will see that link posted into the mumble
chat room.
So he met me at the main of the history room, apparently not.
Okay.
And I'm hearing feedback.
You are one of myself.
I hear myself twice, one, two, one, two, testing, testing, and I'm hearing yourself here
and you still...
Do you have your stream open up somewhere?
Yes.
I'm a moron.
Funny what happens when you accidentally press the play stream thing.
At least we know that works.
Just doing some continuous testing.
That's what that is.
Make it sure everything's working right?
Exactly.
And now we see Solus Spyder in person.
Yeah.
Thank you for the just your link.
And I saw you using my phone to talk.
And we can't hear you because you have to press push button.
Sorry.
It's push the talk.
I've used my pointing fingers and not to push the talk.
So I've got a lot of flag behind me.
But if I turn my camera, you'll see my main flag.
Oh, I got one number eight.
Am I best?
Scotch is accent AKA.
And I've got a real HBR style room.
We should probably have a series on...
Yeah, it shows you a shack type thing.
Man cave tours, people cave tours, person cave tours.
Hacker cave tours.
That's it.
It was right there in front of me the whole time.
OK, what else do we need to do?
Do you transcode into different audio types?
So do you just do MP3?
I'll get MP3.
What do you use for your metadata?
I use Dave's fix tags script.
The one that just broke for me.
Yeah, I'm not sure it's still working right for me.
Because I guess he has a binary version now, which he says
will be slower, but will always work.
OK, there's a while back he made an executable.
And that's worked on everything.
And I put that to anywhere I might save files.
So I'm just about to do that very thing right now.
Just so I don't lose it, it's everywhere.
It's in the next cloud server.
It's in the local computers.
It's in the Google Cloud, whatever.
Anywhere I may have files, I'm just going to put it there.
I'm going to check it up to the HPR gase report as well.
Bye, bye.
One second.
Feel free to talk amongst yourselves, folks.
Yeah, I got a busy day planned.
Go up early.
Got a shower and I think you're welcome.
And I've got some rest.
That time, here again.
And every year, whether I need this or not,
I'm going to Kentucky Cardiology.
I'll put the link in the show notes.
Kentucky Cardiology, I've been doing a series of hard tests.
And nothing is wrong, but I'm just going to check it out.
And so another test this morning.
And then I'm believing from there to go to work at the food.
So I had the food back.
Oh, good stuff.
Thanks.
I have a exciting day of visiting the dentist
and then just spending time with family.
This week, I am going.
Go ahead over.
I was just going to say this week is my favorite week of the year
because I take from Christmas to New Year's off,
because the kids are off.
My wife takes it off.
And we just kind of hang out and do nothing
and have nice Christmases because we
do with one family than the other family.
And then we take time to take everything down.
And I've been off since, let's see, Christmas Eve, I worked.
I've been off.
I had to work yesterday to do an inventory.
Now I'm off until Saturday.
I've been off for a week.
And I had 15 minutes of a break this morning
where I could read a book.
But yeah, no harm.
Some sub me.
But it's good to get the time to fix this, hit your stuff.
Because then you can't process 260 shows a year without automation.
It just needs to go.
It needs to be done.
But my son is doing a Lord of the Rings marathon
today, starting at 2 o'clock and continuing
until 4 o'clock tomorrow morning.
So the bridging holes are the full extended versions.
The extended versions.
Oh, nice.
So it's what like four hours are moving.
I don't think I've ever watched the extended versions.
Aren't they like four hours a piece of all three movies?
Yeah, but I've seen all three there long.
Oh, good Lord.
I thought we watched when the third one came out,
we had seen the first one in a second.
But we went to the theater because it
was being released at midnight all around the world.
Every country, it was being released at midnight,
the third episode.
So it was a theater in the Hague who had it on,
who had the first one, then they had dinner, space
that you'd go get something to eat, and then the second one,
and then they had snacks and stuff.
And then everybody would go in at midnight
and the third one would start at midnight.
So it was awesome.
That sounds awesome.
People dressed up as fairies, and there
was orcs walking around that stuff.
Except it was four empty chairs, like three rows back
for the whole thing.
Everybody was like, we were there the whole day,
and everybody kind of started no new each other,
except for those four chairs.
And then at midnight, these four people
kind of crept in front and sat down and people
were like, no, no, no, no, no.
Not real fans.
What, this is a real fan.
Yeah, you were there to watch the movie.
Yeah, but you could watch the movie in another theater.
But this was a special omnibus thing that was going on.
It was all that you had to buy.
Yeah, they actually had to pay it like a full whack
for the tickets, like they were expensive.
If you 100 euros each, or 100 euros each at 20 years ago.
That's the thing my wife would do.
She is really into the fantasy stuff, a lot of the rings.
I would say into Star Wars 2, I call that more fantasy
than anything.
I'm more into Star Trek and Matrix,
more of this kind of science-based.
Yeah, the magic part, I'm not into that so much, but I guess.
Yeah, I'll never watch Harry Potter.
Nor have I.
I've seen like one of the first funnets events.
It never, I don't see the, I mean, it was fine.
I didn't see the craze involved with it.
I thought it was fine.
I read the books.
Don't think I'd read them now though.
No.
Also, because the guy, I want to slap him
about the fantasy such a quiet.
Shared library, crypt.0.1 does not work with my fixed
title script.
That is, that is typical.
That is just my, you know, that describes my entire week.
It works for everybody else and the internet except Ken.
So what is it you're working on now?
Now, I'm working on the tag,
getting the tags into the, so we take the,
as we get random stuff from anybody on the internet right,
we can't trust anything.
Right, at all.
And that also comes with big binary files.
So we take the audio in and we convert it into PCM,
direct PCM, and then from there,
we convert it into the various different formats.
But before we do that,
we need to make a sandwich of the text to speech stuff
at the beginning.
And then, so we leave a period of six seconds of silence.
Then we do, this is HPR episode, blah, blah, blah,
for our wedding stage or whatever.
And then the show and the, and the introduction
so that people can skip over it.
And that people know if they're in the car,
it's marked with a clean flag or a explicit flag.
So that you know what it's going to be, you know.
And also, sometimes if you have like a day of episode
and it's going into Perl scripts and whatever,
you might want to not watch that in the car
or listen to it in the car and skip to the next one.
So that's what we do with that.
But it's important then to get,
so then we have Flak, Valve, Og,
and the reason we convert all of them is,
when we upload them to the internet archive,
all our metadata, if it derives the audio to another audio,
our metadata gets lost.
So if there was, if we upload just a Flak file,
the metadata and the Flak file
is not transferred to the wild or the MP3.
So if they, if they, if we upload them,
then they won't make the derivatives.
If we upload them, we also get to maintain the metadata
in the files themselves.
Sometimes I wonder why we do this.
And just don't care.
So I was wondering, do, because I'm not sure
whether the mid, like Dave's script
has still been working for me.
And I mean, I put it in somebody new,
somebody new.
Oh, no matter, no matter if you mute, Jitsy.
I'm on Jitsy, but I'm not video.
I know, can you mute, Jitsy?
You're not supposed to be on Jitsy for audio.
You just want audio to go to the mobile.
Sorry, if I did, I thought I had.
I think you muted, well, you still got Jitsy open.
The audio on Jitsy.
OK.
Oh, he left.
Yeah, I was wondering whether people still actually,
you know, if the audio tags still affect anything
with anybody, like my, with the lug cast for,
I put in a section for, like, description of the episode.
And I can't tell you the amount of random stuff I've just
kind of thrown in there over the years.
And I've never once got any.
Yeah, I know audio players will take the, what name of it
and episode number, but I don't know, because most RSS
feeders are going to be pulling it straight straight in.
And well, I guess people who do different RSS feeders
to pull it into just a regular file
are downloaded onto the computers and then uploaded
other places, as opposed to using a, like, a pod catcher
on their phone, it would need the metadata for.
And we need compatibility for legacy API versions.
Do I install this now or not?
I don't know.
I think Fedora's broken.
Sorry, I'm sorry to distract you, but I'm, I'm now trying
to fix the fixed tags, Dave's thing, because it's not
giving me a share, it's giving me some weird shared
that tree to fix things, I think.
Excellent.
That's live X script.
So your question, do people read the tags?
Yes, some people do.
Yeah, like I said, I think it's probably mostly on how they
consume their podcast audio.
Whether they pull, they download the file and then to
somewhere else, I think pod catchers would just automatically
give, I mean, you would know what it is, because we've
where the RSS feed came from.
And it's already installed.
The package that's complaining about not working.
I really just want to take my head and slam it against all.
Have you ever thought about this?
I think that that's a very fricking day.
This is something that that Dory is to do, which is take it
and put it, he said he had a VM where he would do all of his
audio editing.
So that way nothing has, it's a static VM where nothing changes.
And that way everything is exactly the same every single
time when it comes to the editing.
I mean, now until somebody sends in something that requires us
to the breaks, everything six ways to Sunday.
And then we have to go and fix our scripts.
And then you, and then you get the library issues.
So you're just either deal with it constantly or you put it
off for like what happened here, which is, you know, total
am I getting?
I think I think just the door is broken.
I'm going to switch to Debian, but not today.
Because when I look at the amount of flak packs I'm running now,
I could equally be running them on Debian and just flak pack
my way to marijuana.
Fixes live install libxcrypt.com pass.
Ken, when you're listening to this July, when it breaks the next
time, can you please make a note to add that as well?
Cool.
OK, guys, I'm going to go and talk to my family.
Once a year, it's a digital thing.
Five minutes from now, that's it.
I'll just switch to your family.
Yeah, thanks, guys.
I'll probably be back in a minute, but I'm not going to be talking.
I'll leave you to look at my cool man cave.
I'll go leave your stuff.
Angelus, that's all my stuff that I never have time to use.
Morning.
Morning.
How are you?
I'm tired.
Hello, Joe.
Hey, I got the day off from work day, but I still
got to go get some blood work done, go get allergy shots,
and then go to the DMV and get a replacement sticker
for my registration.
Awesome.
So a busy day indeed, I get it.
Sorry, what was that?
So a busy day indeed, I get it.
I've also got medical appointments, but then I've got to go to work.
Because I'm not dealing with a DMV.
I will have to basically get a passport.
The new real ID standard is basically an in-nation passport,
something that years ago they were fighting tooth and nail.
Yeah, I got one.
Yeah.
Funny all that security stuff that we fought back in the 60s
and 70s, 80s, or whatever, is now being enforced after 9-11
or what have you.
We were never going to be elected Soviets
and have internal passports.
But I guess with everybody throwing drivers license
that are legal, the federal government
has decided to tighten it up.
Well, guys, I'm going to head off here and head up
to that medical appointment to work.
And I'll listen to him every now and then,
but I won't be speaking to later in my day.
Take care, everyone.
All right, have a good one.
Good luck.
To enjoy your trying to build a server rack or 3D printer rack.
Yeah, I'm three, well, I mostly 3D printed a 10 inch server rack.
I think it's GeekPie makes one.
Let me look up who the company is that makes one
that kind of inspired this.
Yeah, it's GeekPie, 8U server cabinet turning server rack.
Yeah, I just dropped the link for it.
And I do not have the show notes brought up to add it to that.
You hear me?
Yeah, I can hear.
OK.
I found them on Amazon.
Yeah, they have their website.
180 bucks video from a couple of YouTube videos.
I've attached to it.
When I built, like I said, I'm not sure on the depth on.
I'm 3D printing a 1U unit that attaches at the front
and the back, just a shelf.
That'll tell me if I have the right depth.
And if I don't, I can print out another one and use that
as a racer's for it.
I know I got the width right.
And the height is 8U, so that should be correct as well.
And I know I'm going to put a couple of pies on there.
I'm going to put my set gear switch on there.
And I will put my portable Wi-Fi router on there.
And then I'm thinking of maybe printing a setup
for all of my hard drives that I currently have in my dash
and then moving my dash to it as well.
But I'll have to take the measurements
for the power supply and get that put in there.
But it should be pretty interesting.
That looks cold.
Yeah, I think I need the Ethernet pass through.
All plate for it.
Eight Ethernet ports pass through or ports pass through.
All things on the inside.
Yeah, because for me, that's usually the biggest thing
in the ass.
It's just the networking.
The cable management is going to be hell on it.
I'm going to have to find a way to attach a power strip,
which shouldn't be too difficult.
I've got some blank plates that I can use.
And then just getting the proper power supplies
right into the proper places and still being able to access
all the ports that I need to access from the outside.
I think it's supposed to be like seven and a half inches deep,
which is about what I have right now.
A lot of your plates are only half depth plates.
So I'm thinking I can use, for some of them,
like the net gear, I can use the back
and then still have the front open for like a set of raspberry
pies or something.
And a lot of the 10 inch plates are already made
and available, easy to download.
I can only print one U. I can't do the two U plates
because my printer just simply is not big enough.
Right.
Right now, I think I got another three or four hours left
on this 15 hour print plate that are for the shelf
that I'm printing out now.
Probably be out the door well before then.
Out things been so far, pretty quiet.
Yeah, all right.
I had a couple of people on talking.
Yeah, that's about usual for this time in the morning.
Yeah, I need to take everything down
and retry to reorganize it at some point.
Is every time I get, I take everything down, reorganize it,
either stuff gets added, stuff gets taken away.
I mean, the cord management here is just an absolute disaster.
Yeah, I need to do that too.
Mostly with the USB connections in front of my computer
that I have used it various times and then dropped
and then came a part of a tangled mess.
Yeah.
Oh.
Get my workspace cleaned up.
I can fix some more headphones.
Yeah, you haven't talked about fixing headphones in a while.
Well, you fix, you refix so many HBS Bluetooth headsets
and it's like me.
Nobody wants to hear it no more.
I mean, I'm having problems with either switches
or batteries just getting too old.
It's probably the switches
during its randomly powering down,
powering right back on,
on a couple of different headsets.
That's inconvenient.
Yeah, and then, I mean,
even if you can source those switches,
which probably isn't that hard,
they're so delicate on the board
and don't know if I even want to bother.
I just want to find some really cheap neck bands
and so sticking with the HB earned LG HBSs
or if I want to move away from neck bands entirely
and I don't generally like the true wireless
because of the battery life,
but I hear it's improving so.
What would you go to like a full over the year
or like a earbuds?
I kind of have to stick to earbuds.
I mean, I'd love it.
I love the sound quality on some over the years.
I picked up some Arctis 9x steel series
over the Christmas holiday
and they're great for sound quality
when connected to my phone.
But I mean, if you're ever planning
on having a conversation with the people around you,
then they're not the right answer.
No, no, that usually.
I need something that I can have on one ear.
It doesn't look stupid
because the other side is behind my other ear.
Yeah, I mostly have like one ear but it's.
I gotta go with buds of some kind
so if it's true wireless
then it's true wireless
even though they're impossible to work on.
Or it's I find another neck band
and it's getting harder and harder
to find working pairs of the LGs
or even broken pairs of the LGs that I actually want
which is either the 770s or the 800s.
All I can do is try and find something else.
Yep, works for me.
I mean, you can fight for a while there.
I was working with those really, really cheap headsets
and replacing connectors with MMCX
and finding ways to, you know, replace the batteries.
And that works well enough.
You don't get the actual neck band.
You get, you know, just a medallion in the middle
and I guess I could, you know, completely switch to that.
You're still hit or miss on the microphones.
Now, what's that you use for recording?
What's that I'm using right now?
Yeah.
My Razer and Ari Ultimates.
I know it's not the best sound quality
on the microphone on these either,
but at least I can move around the garage while I'm doing it.
So I'm not stuck in one spot.
Now, will you use those for a midcast
or just when you're slumming it with us?
I'm slumming it with you guys.
I've used my quality microphone with you guys before too.
It's just, you know, when it's a little bit more scripted,
the way midcast is and we're sitting there and, you know,
I know what I got you.
I know what we're doing every step of the way.
Yeah, I use my good microphone for the people that I like.
I understand fully.
Well, we know where we are in the pecan order.
That's all right.
I'm glad you understand.
Okay.
Okay.
Ah, I still haven't watched the movie for writing.
I guess I got one yet.
I started it.
That good.
Well, it's fine.
I just, but when I started it,
it wasn't time when I could sit down and watch all of it.
But I started watching it.
It's that same what ladies, really 90s movie style,
a very young Bruce Campbell.
Very young Bruce Campbell.
That's good.
Oh, dang, what was that?
What?
I guess it was you, the audio feedback.
I was horrible.
Don't know why I haven't changed anything.
I haven't moved.
If you didn't hear it, then I had to have been you.
That's the better.
I didn't hear it.
You didn't hear it?
Nope.
It was me.
Hey, how you doing?
I'm doing great.
I'm doing great.
I knew.
Yeah.
I'm doing okay.
I have to get poked and prodded today to find out more crap next week.
So we'll see.
We're going to check my testosterone levels again.
Fun.
How's that going?
What?
Going well enough.
Are you still in medicine for it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Probably for the rest of my life.
I don't know.
Unless, you know, they give me some kind of like a moment or a moment, it's basically a
post-psychotherapy made to convince the body to create more testosterone on its own.
But I doubt that they'll do that.
And for now, I'm still using the gel or one of these days they'll switch me to the
needle.
Are you all right with jabbing yourself with the needle or?
I am.
Okay.
With jabbing myself with the needle, it's not going to bother me.
I mean, you're just going into the fatty tissue.
It's not like I need to find a vein every time.
And the only thing that concerns me about that is I'm prone to, you know, get infections
in sensitivity.
Well, that's not good.
Sticking yourself with the needle every week then.
Yeah.
I did that with the low-vinox shots when I first got out of hospital.
What's that?
Lominax?
It's a blood thinner when I have my surgery for having my leg done.
Oh, my dad hated being on blood thinner.
Not sure how will I do with doing myself a needle.
It's not the whole idea of needle.
It's the fact that I know that there's going to be pain involved.
I don't understand how people prick their finger all the time.
It's that I know that this thing is going to hurt me and I'm just adverse to pain.
I don't want to hurt me.
Well, you've gotten blood drawn before, right?
Sure.
That's not really painful though.
It's an uncomfortable thing that goes underneath my arm and most of the time I'm sitting
there, I'm going, all right, I really want this thing out of my arm.
Same thing.
Yeah.
It's like listening to a very slow and it's like, you know, had enough caffeine to really
wind up.
This is what living cell cast normally sounds like except for it without truncate silence
or sped to whatever it is that you just speed it up to.
Exactly.
You're all talking really slow.
I'd like I'd listen to a podcast or anything Western three eggs.
I've made it up to two when it comes to audiobooks.
Well, I've kind of slowed down on the audiobooks a little bit.
A lot of times I'll do three or three point five.
Not trying for five anymore, I mean, sometimes I'll do that with like YouTube stuff, cranking
up to five really dependent on who's talking or the next time the dragon Wilson movie that
Danny picks.
I'm going for six on that one.
Well, you should definitely be talking about those projects.
I'm just saying that was talking about my projects, but deal, sport, I always thought
to be interesting to put a text to speech into the mumble channel, make it automatically
read what people write in the mumble channel.
Yeah, there is one inside mumble, but it's actually like really terrible.
And so someone posts like a link like I did and it just reads that out.
It's horrible.
It's very irritating.
I forgot about that.
I always have a shut off automatically that I forgot that it's terrible.
Well, it's the standard, he's big voice, isn't it?
It doesn't matter.
It can't read.
And it reads absolutely everything.
You'd have a whole series of numbers just blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And it takes forever.
So I'm still messing around with Portainer.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I tried setting up a pie hole in Docker in Portainer, but I have an issue where Port
53 is being used by Alex C DNS mask for my virtual machine.
So pie hole needs Port 53 TCP and UDP in order to be able to block ads in order to be
able to, you know, talk to the rest of the internet for DNS resolution.
So you can't swap the ports on one of them?
That is correct.
You cannot pick the port for that.
It's always the same port.
So why don't you use like an NPM to redirect any next proxy manager?
Okay.
You could use something like a firewall or a proxy manager in order to point to a different
port.
You can even set a different port when you're creating the Docker, but the only one that's
actually going to do any DNS work is the one that's on 53 the whole way through.
If you go into your router, you can't set the port when you set the IP address for your
DNS.
Silly.
Because when you go into your router, you can't write the port when you put in the IP address
for the DNS service that you're using.
I have.
So I have right now in my router, Port 80 and 443 open up to NPM.
And that's the only ports I have open.
All my other servers get flushed through and done, but you have no server and you have
an NGNX proxy manager.
You have a DNS set up at the router level, right?
Your DNS is pointing, or your router is pointing to a DNS, right?
The router isn't pointing to the DNS that I have, you know, my DNS is somewhere else,
not the router.
My DNS is DYNU DNS.
So DYNU DNS is pointing, yeah, is pointing to my router, right, but you have to be able
to search the internet.
So you have to have a DNS set up somewhere in your router settings, either that or you're
just using the one provided by your internet service provider.
Yes.
And using the IP given by the internet service provider, it's going to the router and then
the router gets forwarded to NPM and then everything else gets forwarded to NPM.
Right.
So when you do NPM sense, you can direct the unbound DNS to a given port and pie hole
will take that as its upstream DNS and then do its thing on 53.
Right.
But it needs 53 in order to be able to do it.
So what's the other thing that's running on 53?
The only thing that's running on 53 is TCP and UDP and those are just the protocols and
it's still just DNS.
But if you're asking what else is running on my machine, that's the LXC, which is a small
form of DNS mass, which is providing the DNS for my virtual machine.
All right.
Then I need to how to oh, you're saying I should have googled that?
No, I'm just trying to figure out what I'm trying to envision what your internal server
network looks like.
Mine's pretty straightforward.
I have the URL hits DYNU DNS, which is forward to my home IP, which gets funneled down
and you're that's for your resolution and then your dynamic data service.
That's for your resolution, that's for inbound.
I'm talking about the outbound stuff, which is all on port for 53.
Okay.
So you're talking, when you're talking your dynamic DNS, you're talking about how the
internet reaches you.
Right.
I'm talking DNS.
I'm talking about how you reach the rest of the internet.
Okay.
Right.
Morton C.
I just discovered something last night.
Morton C is an elbow, actually L's bow.
Yes, I know it's a cheap joke, but you know, it's a free joke too.
I still want a snow bank.
Still want to what?
I don't know.
I heard snow bank.
I want to see L's picture against the large snow bank.
I mean, I've seen her in many, many tropical locations, but not in one that is New England
friendly.
Oh, I'm sure it'll happen sooner or later.
Joe, you were talking about headphones before.
Do you ever try open ear ones?
Um, depends on what you mean by open ear.
Have I tried the bone conduction ones?
Yes.
Um, but that was a long time ago.
And I did enjoy the bone conduction ones, but they leave me a little self-conscious that,
you know, my ears are acting like a speaker and everybody else can hear what I'm listening
to.
I got these Tozo earbuds that kind of project that into the ear without having a bud in
there, actually.
Tozo.
Tozo is a good low cost brand.
Yeah.
It's a good price.
Yeah.
That's why I got them.
It was a gift for your Amazon gift card, and I can't really afford anything of the high
end over $100.
That's just.
Yeah.
I don't.
I'm not going to pay that much for headphones and usually buy broken and then fix them.
So the open ear ones that you have, are they the headband style or are they the ones that
clip on your ears?
And they clip on their ear and my ears and they're pretty flexible as far as the way we
can rotate it to get a good ear fit.
So it's pretty good for most users.
I should drop a link on some looking at here because I see the open earring, true open
ear headphones, and then I see the O2, true open ear wireless headphones, open ego.
They're the O2 ones.
I'll drop a link.
Okay.
Now I see them.
$20 off with coupon, which makes them $49.99.
I'm looking on the Amazon page now and say $69.99, there's no coupon.
Let's show them a coupon for $20 off and $69.99 is the price, which is 13% off.
It's normal price of $79.99.
Amazon's pricing is so trustworthy.
And I see the open earring ones are normally $39.99, but they have a $10 coupon.
And open egos are limited time deal $29.99, same with the bone conduction ones that
they have.
Those are interesting shaped bone conduction ones.
No, like the open earring ones and then the the open ego, the open earring ones.
I think they're they clip onto your ear, but they're meant, are they meant to vibrate
your ear?
It looks like they're just kind of a speaker.
I'm one of the little balls.
I was kind of pointed at your ear.
Speaker on the balls.
Speaker on the balls.
Okay.
I see what you're talking about on those.
Okay.
So the ball side goes in your ear, rejects sound that way.
Yeah.
The O2s.
Yeah.
They just put a speaker in front of your ear hole and then clip over the ear.
My wife might like something like that.
She doesn't like something in her ear.
So she has kind of headphones there, but wrap around that kind of wrap around the
ear like that.
Yeah.
And I am seeing the $20 coupon on the link that you sent, Archery.
I see it too.
Oh, maybe because I bought them already.
I didn't know what coupon.
One coupon per person.
I can't buy another set for a backup.
You can.
You just have to pay full price.
I got these hybrid ANC in ears, 40 bucks with a 30% coupon.
I've just been using in ears for so long.
Me too.
I always try to get tips that fit really well.
So that way, if I need to, I can use it just to block out noise around me, preserve what's
left of my hearing.
Who knew that growing up around explosions would cause hearing damage?
Yeah.
I still say it's a myth.
So did you guys get anything good for Christmas?
I got an orange pie for free.
Orange pie three.
That's four gigabytes.
Cool.
A little bit of external two different two terabyte external drives.
Part of them.
Yeah.
Can I encrypt them and put all your port on there?
Probably.
What do you got there?
Is that an orange pie?
No, that is a elect tech sub thing for checking USB cables, which I haven't taken out
so it's a thing.
Let me try that now.
Are you guys on the Jitsy?
Yes.
Well, that's cool.
I'm showing a board.
It's about a minute and a half.
So the Jitsy link is basically the same as Logcast instead of Slash Logcasts, it's Slash
HPR and YA.
Hold on.
Yeah.
Slash HPR and YA.
So it's a board two inches or five centimeters and it's got a USB-A normal
connection and then it's got two USB-C's on that side and it's got on the other side
of lightning a USB-C and a micro and the idea is you put it in line with your computer
and then you can check to see whether the resistors and stuff are all wired up, whether it's just
a power cable or whether it's a data cable, whether it's got D plus D minus and PCC connected
and you can also probe them as well if you're into that sort of phone.
And I got this, which is a lithium ion charger load tester type thing.
I sort of reviewed an Andreas Space Tunnel Space, the Swiss Sky with a French accent or
the guy with Swiss accent on YouTube and I've been collecting all lithium ion batteries
from all crappy laptops and wanted to see which are good or not.
So with this I can, very much so, very much.
Yeah, I just put six of them into DIY battery pack.
Joe, you look nothing like your voice.
Oh, thank you.
In five words, you look exactly like your voice, it's just, you've got to be not weird.
Oh my god.
What do I sound like?
Not a guy with a foot long beard?
Well, now you do.
Oh, okay.
Is it weird that having a non-capital, tight to walk around and then you hear a voice,
who the fuck is that?
Sorry, I was holding push to talk and push to talk my variable in the amount of the way.
I just hot mute and leave it on voice activity.
That goes against our guiding principles.
Yeah, I got this lovely mute button on the back of my head, so I just,
ah, okay, yeah, I did.
Well, then I can vape quietly.
I'm just wondering, should I convert it to PCM or not?
Earlier, I told you that we converted to PCM, but apparently I didn't have them
been doing that for ages.
I converted to WAV, which is more or less the same thing.
It's exactly the same thing, actually.
That's probably why I did it.
Okay, just answering my own question.
Have a nice day, Dave.
I don't think I ever converted any to PCM.
I specifically wanted to do it, so that there wasn't a risk of cross contamination
or metadata around anything.
And again, if you don't put in the switches, it doesn't go across.
Anyway, hello, Fokie.
Long time no see here, even.
Hello, cool, cool, cool.
People still download and speaks.
Yeah, but I'm wondering, is that just my test script downloading speaks?
I think this is the Gizzi screen.
It's that 10-inch server rack I was talking about.
Cool.
You know what I use for server racks?
I'll show this on the Gizzi.
So describing what you're seeing is a grid of metal, which is about two inches, five
centimeters square, is that you get at the plant store at one of those DI.
Fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Intertown.
I don't know.
Whatever.
And they've got like that plastic coating on it, a powder coating on it.
So that's mounted away from the wall on these things.
It's intended for people to have on the outside of their houses, so the climbers can go through
it like IV or something.
But it's absolutely fantastic because you can just use a roll of Velcro.
I don't know why I need to show you a roll of Velcro, but I've now lost my roll of Velcro.
And I just don't throw stuff to it.
And I got these hooks from IKEA, which get into their thing and they just clip on them
and they're handy for holding cables.
So I've got a router and switch and just Velcro all the stuff out and it provides air.
And there's also more down underneath which you probably can't see.
Yeah.
That's Raspberry Pi going down to some hard base, some internal matter.
And this works.
And these are my two set of boxes for lab on and one production box.
This works out quite well because you're with Raspberry Pi, you always take them out
and move them around and stuff.
And then I have a long cable to this switch which I can put on to the monitor of the
industry.
And I just plug in a keyboard and this.
I don't know.
Thanks.
I'm not sure.
It's okay.
Did you set out?
Right.
Yeah.
And you can change stuff.
Easy enough.
Cables are in a mess and stuff.
No.
Cables are always in a mess.
Yeah.
No.
Anyway, you've convinced me.
Oh.
Yeah.
That's a proper hacker desk yet with the correct level of dust for the occasion.
I'd move my camera, but I'm afraid it'll disconnect my headset again and then my audio
will be all over the place.
Yeah.
We don't want that.
Yeah.
I got to figure out a way to dust and to get in there to dust too.
Just blowing kind of scares me because I know it's really hard just to come right back
in my face.
Yeah.
Oh, you still got those masks from when COVID was around.
That's true.
Just get the whole.
I use a Uber.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I got a dustbuster.
Maybe I'll just stick it in there.
I don't catch a wire.
I have no motivation for writing the script, guys.
Have you noticed?
Listen, we've been good distractions.
No.
The annoying part of this right is A.
Normally we'll listen to you guys and zone out.
I can pause, rewind, and then what would you say?
Oh, that was interesting.
Oh, yeah.
Well, here I can't.
A lot of technically I could ask you.
Yeah.
And it's strange to listen to you in 100% not one and a half or two.
Two times.
I'm talking like a snow person.
Right.
That's a voice that I haven't heard in far too long.
Yeah.
I'll run fixed tags there.
Thank you for the tip, guys.
This is probably.
I'm holding up.
What is this?
Three triggers.
This is that shelf I was telling you about for the 10 inch rack.
Ah, that's kind of cool.
We're looking at a 3D printer.
The camera output of a 3D printer being shared.
And it is a multi colored rack.
It's a multi color filament.
That's cool looking filament.
Yeah.
And I'm using it to print out server racks.
Why?
What is the shape of this?
Why is there a?
Well, that's supports.
Okay, they're breaking up.
Yeah.
Oh, that's a problem.
And you're printing it vertically.
Why?
Because I have a smaller print bed than, you know, the base of this thing.
Yeah, I can't lay it flat and have it fit.
Right.
Just.
There are my zip ties.
Zip ties.
Another tool.
Right.
My cables are coming down and snacking the print.
Oh, that's not good.
Next time I know to have it go to the other angle.
Very tight.
Limited success when it comes to supports.
Yeah, these supports aren't printing out the greatest, but it looks like they're going to work.
Every time I try to remove supports, I might have destroyed whatever it is I'm trying to make.
Yeah, you got to work on that support.
The distance, the gap between the support and the print.
Then try tree supports instead of regular supports.
I found that they, they're printed thinner so they don't stick on as hard.
I'm going to have to get going here soon.
Yeah, I got it too.
Don't go.
Don't leave me.
No, no, no.
No, I'm going to have to go.
I got to get all the shots.
I got to get the paperwork on my car straight now before I start getting tickets.
Which car?
Oh, Buick.
What was the other one you had on her time?
Was it Mini?
Yeah, I'm still having a hard time with the Mini.
I'm going to try out a couple of things before I take it to a mechanic though.
I'll bleed the radiator and see if that fixes the issue.
Those fucking minis are hard to work on though.
The small car.
Yeah.
Small and even compartment.
I miss about the older cars.
There's some older cars that can basically stand inside there.
I know.
Nowadays everything's so small.
My first car was a 1968 Plymouth Fury 3 with a 318 police interceptor.
The 318 is actually a smaller motor.
I mean, and the Plymouth Fury is not what you would call a small car.
It's a freaking gunboat and a half.
So yes, you could stand next to the motor and be inside the car if you wanted to.
Yeah.
My first car was a 83 Mercury marquee.
Not it nearly as big, but it was.
I mean, it was a lot easier to work on than a lot of the other cars I've worked on since.
I almost given up.
Yeah.
Working on cars.
You can't really work on newer cars at all.
But my second car was about a 78 grand torino.
Nice.
Another freaking gunboat.
That had a 351 in it.
Despite it being in a big engine, you could actually get to everything still.
I mean, it's insane what you have to do to replace the alternator on that mini Cooper.
Oh, yeah.
Big off the tire, take off the sidewall, drain the air conditioning.
Yeah.
Move the air conditioning valve so you can get to the freaking alternator and.
I'm not one of the biggest pain in the ass.
The biggest pain in the ass of changing the alternator was just making sure you got the belt on our tight enough so it doesn't sit there in the squeal.
Right.
Right.
If you didn't have one with a tensioner, you had to go in there with a freaking tire iron and basically hang on the thing.
Get proper amount of tension on it.
Well, somebody else tightened the thing.
But still, it was a 20 minute job.
Yeah.
I think you guys to know for people who are not Americans listening to this sounds very much like a listen to a 1950s movie or a detective show.
Officer of the scene.
We're looking for a 1962 Buick with a thingy thingy.
Plumiac engine.
Come on, too.
I mean, notably what that means, but definitely somebody's been murdered in the last 20 minutes.
What was it?
My blazer.
I had a 78 Chevy Blazer.
I loved working on that thing.
I mean, he didn't even have to jack it up to get underneath it to work on it.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
I mean, it was awesome.
And yes, you could get everything.
I changed the fuel pump on that thing.
I changed alternators.
I changed starters.
I guess I did that on my Asusio rodeo as well.
So maybe what I need is an SUV.
Some guy in the interest on the HP Lovecraft.
What religion is this?
I expect images of all these things into the show.
I enjoyed my course, though.
I probably put a lot of miles on that one, but not as many miles as I put on the Buick.
Still have to go to work driving the work.
Yeah, three times a week.
We're in yesterday.
I'm off today, but and I am working tomorrow.
But I don't have to drive in tomorrow.
So I'll be in Thursday and Friday.
Nice.
Oh, I also have to work Saturday.
Oh, fun.
I go back Saturday.
Actually, actually, I got a funny one for you.
The zoom that does the remote video conferencing software is now having its employees.
It's employees go back into the office.
If that's not a case of the barefoot chew maker, I don't know what is.
That's fantastic.
Yes, zoom is a great product, but we don't trust our employees to use it.
Yeah, I definitely don't understand the craze with trying to force everybody back into the office.
It's a great way to lose good people.
You got to remember, you know, management has to justify itself.
Well, they have to justify the expense they're putting into the building.
The reason for, and the Netherlands is, they have this thing that if you spend more than 50% of your time in a location,
that's your work location.
So if I was working three of the five days here at home, then this would be my official work location,
which means all the equipment here would need to be paid for by the company.
And I would need to have health and safety training done here, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Technically, if you have a home office in the US, you should be able to declare that on your taxes
and have that as a tax write off.
But that counts against your company.
And so you can do that, but you'll probably get fired for not going into work.
I always just figured it was just a matter of managers and trust.
They may see that the work is done, but they don't see what you're doing during all the other times.
They're trying to spout off that it's a matter of, oh gosh, what was it?
Team building and productivity.
But all we heard at the start of COVID was how it's incredible that none of our productivity dropped off
and our productivity actually increased during that time when we were all working from home.
And then the crisis ends and it's like, no, we need you back in the office because productivity.
But thanks for how great your productivity was the whole time you were working from home.
And you know, you know, when I'm working from home, I log in early.
I get off a little bit late.
It doesn't bother me.
I'm not having an hour commute.
It takes me time.
It gives them extra work out of me.
I don't know.
Yeah, believe me.
My dad used to work an hour away from home and he had high blood pressure.
Not having that hour drive would have made him much more productive.
Never mind the fact that you wouldn't have the interruptions.
Not to mention that the trees around my office set me off.
Set off my allergies, something fears.
And so I go in there and I am just all grogged out.
Either that or I'm all drugged up on antihistamines and grogged out.
So only I could say is I'd rather do an hour drive around here than an hour drive in the Dallas area.
You get used to it.
You really do.
I mean, it is hardly the most fast paced offensive driving than I think I've done.
I hardly even noticed the psychotic crap that's going on around me when I'm driving anymore.
I mean, I know it's there.
It's just it's so expected.
Like when somebody pulls like three inches in front of me while speeding 10 times faster than the speed limit.
I just nod my head and go, yeah, yeah, I was expecting that.
That's normal.
I think you got to have a vehicle with some pickup.
I mean, you you launch yourself under those high.
Actually, it's all highway.
What am I saying?
There's like no back road.
It's all highway.
There's a second option.
You have a 20 year old gunboat of a vehicle like a 2001 Buick century and don't wash it.
Do not wash it.
You want it dirty because people will realize that you do not care if they hit you.
You're going to keep going and their little car is going to be a smear on the road because your Buick didn't even notice.
Yeah, yeah, you perhaps an old Ford police cruisers.
Absolutely.
The LTDs are one of the original gun boats.
Well, I was thinking of the other one, but yeah, the name is yeah, Crown Vic.
Especially since a police crown Vic is a gunboat.
Yeah, what the hell?
Blue's brothers.
Oh, I had to.
It's like I'm exactly another planet than you.
Pop suspension.
Pop brakes.
Yeah.
Shit.
I don't miss it.
Yeah.
No, look.
Look at my friend.
Yeah, he too.
Look at my print.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
So close to the end.
You're putting in the air.
Did it get whacked and moved?
Yeah, I moved.
It didn't stick down hard enough.
Oh, it's falling.
Oh, it sucks.
Can you restart it?
Yeah, I can.
It's still like 300 grams of material though.
You got to restart from the beginning.
You can't like put it back in and then.
Oh, so close.
15 hour print.
What are you, what are you used to gear to the bed using?
I did spray this one with hairspray.
Because of how large it is, I can't use a brim.
Okay.
That's what I was thinking of.
I'm going to have to figure something else out.
Well, I have been amusing anecdote for those of us who may have friends in Scandinavia
or are aware of how tough a boat has to be to be in the North Sea.
I am in Scandinavia.
Yeah.
Well, there was this cruise ship off Venezuela and a little Venezuelan patrol boat of some
patrol ship of some kind, maybe even a destroyer.
But it was not built to handle North Sea ice like the cruise ship was.
They tried to stick up the Scandinavian cruise ship.
And when that didn't work, they tried to ram it.
Well, the cruise ship was flight enough to call the international authorities when the
Venezuelan warship sunk because it crumpled against the anti-ice hull of the cruise
ship.
It appears the cruise ship was better armored than the Venezuelan warship.
Well, tell me if I got the length right, I can see that or the depth right, I can see
that it's pretty darn close, but I should still be able to use it to shell.
All right.
I got to check out for a while.
Yeah, I'm going to have to get going here soon and get to my appointments.
I'm going to leave Ditsy open because I'm signed in as the moderator, so I'm just
probably do that.
Should I make a mic?
Make sure it's your port and piece.
That's right.
Let's see.
I'm going to log out here and leave the stream running so people don't get worried.
There are recordings going, the Ken is recording directly and he's recording a stream and
I have the stream recording.
I know I'm going to be logged off here on mumble.
All right.
I'll talk to you guys later.
I'll be back on.
Later, Hockey.
Yeah, I'll probably log back in from my phone when I start driving around them all my
appointments, just to listen in and see if anybody else is talking.
Well, I plan on being here.
I don't know if I'm going to have anybody to talk to, but I'm pretty good at this kind
of stuff.
Eight years as a solo security guard, I don't do it.
I spent some time as a security guard.
Well, sir, it's a respectable profession.
I had a company you're working for.
I had had an interesting talk with the state police, I was there who believed that his uniform
and car overrode my uniform and speed bump.
I said, you know, guy, tell me who you're trying to visit and I'll give him a call and
you can have coffee at four in the morning or whatever it is or tell me who you're after
as a criminal or as a suspect and I will lock up this place and I will escort you up
to their unit.
But show me your warrant.
Right.
I don't just because you have a uniform and a car doesn't mean that I can let you wander
around here because some of some of our residents actually pay me so that police just don't
randomly wander around.
They like their privacy.
Also there were at least a couple of people who were doing things that probably were not
coaxed by.
Yes, I mean, there was at least one outfit which one time where a guest of one of our
residents was followed by another car and there was a jogger who showed up at just the
right time to distract me from noticing that that car was followed since one of our residents
was a turf accountant.
Otherwise known as a bookie, I suspect that I had some serious government or my resident
had some serious government interest.
It was definitely a family business family from the North.
You're trying to say he was mobbed up?
I would suspect he was, didn't want to poke my nose too far into that.
That's understandable.
Well, also in my right near my house there was a parking lot where a guy committed suicide.
First he shot himself in a knee and then sometime later he was found shot.
No gun around him, but it was considered suicide.
I believe cheating certain people is considered suicide.
Makes sense to me.
Or either that or a first-class darwin award.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our Sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
