Episode: 4456
Title: HPR4456: HPR Community News for August 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4456/hpr4456.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:56:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4456 from Monday the 1st of September 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for August 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 75 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is…
HBR volunteers Scoti, Kevin, and can't talk about shows released and comments
posted in August 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Joining me this evening live from the U.S. of Freedom is…
Scotty.
And up there from the Highlands, from the Lowlands to the Highlands is…
Welcome back, Kevin, I hope you had a good holiday vacation.
A thoroughly great holiday.
The biggest issue was coming back, I came back from 40 degrees to teens and boy,
that was a culture shock to the system.
I bet it was, I bet it was.
However, this is the HBR Community News for August 2025.
And HBR is a community podcast where the shows are sent in by the listeners.
That means that if you want this project to continue,
you need to take an active role in that by helping the project out in some way.
And the best way that you can do that is pick up a microphone and go,
hello, my name is… say your name.
I heard about HBR from there and this is how I got into tech.
Can be your first episode and then we'll take it from there.
This, what you're listening to now, is a one of the shows done by the volunteers.
Everybody on this podcast is a volunteer.
And we discuss the news that has been going on in the HBR community.
We make sure to go through every show so that there's some positive feedback.
And remember, the number one thing that you can do to help out,
if you don't do a show is to leave some positive feedback.
It is the currency by which we pay our house, as I've said.
Multiple occasions.
We go through those shows.
We read the comments that have been left.
And we discuss anything that's been on the mailing list,
which is the governance body.
And I bring you up to speed on anything else that you need to be aware of
with regard to the HBR project.
Do they miss anything, Chaps?
No, that was a very thorough introduction.
Good job.
It's almost like I've done this 250 times.
Anyway, the first thing that we do,
and let's give this one the honor to Kevin,
as you've been away on holidays, to welcome in new hosts.
Yes, thank you.
Right, so we have a big thanks to our new host, Manon.
So that was it.
One new host this month.
Excellent, but not new to HBR.
If you're the keen listeners among you,
we'll recognize her voice from the outro of every episode.
So there you go.
Yeah, she's the expense of AI you were referring to.
Yeah, I think she finds HBR rather expensive,
given the amount of time and money that she asked about into it.
So yeah, time that I take up and money that she puts in.
But she's very good about this.
So that's everything.
Absolutely, yes.
Exactly.
And trying to convince her to nip over to
on camp next year.
But it's a bit of an awkward time.
A lot of people can't make it, which is a bit sad.
Yeah, I'm totally gutted.
So, and I'm very sad on that.
Yeah.
Going to events promoting HBR at set events,
either by holding a booth or interviewing in the corridors
and given talks or writing articles in professional magazines,
hobby magazines, that sort of stuff.
There's also a way that you can help push HBR.
We're not really looking for listeners
because there's lots of SEO stuff that we could do for that.
That's managing itself.
What we need is the one-to-one connections
to bring in new hosts.
And that's a constant thing where people eventually come to the project
to stay for a while and then leave for one reason or another
or live catches up and that's totally acceptable
and totally expected in actual fact,
because that's how life works.
So, the best thing that you can be doing to help us out
is send an initial comment on the episodes.
But also, if you can add your local hacker space in work,
talk about HBR, have it been on the tip of your tongue
that would make an excellent show for HBR
and explain what it is, tell people how easy it is to do it.
And if there is somebody with an interesting story,
take out your phone and just press record,
it's the audio will be fine and send it into us.
That's pretty much all I have to say about that, I guess.
Yes, that's actually one thing I'm been surprised at.
I mean, a lot I haven't done an interview for HBR yet
is when you actually do stick a microphone in front of people's
if you give them a bit of warning and say, can you do it?
And generally say, no, that's scary.
But put your microphone in front of them and just say,
we're just recorded for this, just give me your thoughts.
They're actually quite willing to do it most of the time.
So, yeah, don't be afraid to ask the worst they can do say no.
And you can always say, look, we can delete it at the end
if you're not happy with it.
And we, you know, all edited and sent a TA, etc, etc.
So, no barrier to entry.
Cool.
Anyway, let's mostly through the shows that we had last, last month.
And we had the first show, which was philosophy,
philosophy, philosophy, cosmology, physics.
And just what is up with Harry Larry's brain and the title,
brilliant.
Yes, I saw this one coming down and it was going,
Emmanuel Kant was an inspiring philosopher back in the 18th,
18th century.
He inspired this song.
And this was by Harry Larry, who of course
releases everything under CC,
under great commons license.
And this was no different.
It was, in fact, a bit of a discussion followed by a song.
What do you think?
Thoroughly enjoyed it.
It was, I think this was this was the first one I heard on my way back from
holiday.
And we had eight hours early.
So this one kept me going in Glasgow Airport.
So, yeah, I thought I'd really enjoyed it.
And yeah, I was actually one thing.
Is he actually going to do the whole song or not?
Or just talk about it, but no, he went full-lord.
I thought I'd really enjoyed every minute of it.
Yeah, I was washing dishes when I was listening to this one.
And the song was excellent.
So thank you, Harry Larry.
I enjoyed it.
And I will be playing it again.
Excellent stuff.
Bob Jungman says in the comments,
how could playing music fit into HPR?
And when I saw this coming in on the common feed,
I couldn't read the comments because we don't want to back us.
I didn't have access, I think.
Well, good.
Now another troll on HPR, you know,
troll the discussion so we had.
But Bob says, I didn't think that playing music would fit into HPR's goals.
But Harry Larry's intro
onto phenomenology and humanology,
which I definitely killed,
was definitely of interest.
I didn't know that new monolulogy was
or even that it was a thing.
So I learned something today.
And I'm Harry Larry, a music fan anyway.
So this was a nice episode.
I do apologize for mispronouncing those words.
And Harry Larry replied to that saying,
thanks definitely outside of my plain text programs wheelhouse.
In fact, it originated as a from the archives of something
blue, musicology podcast.
But I thought cosmology, physics,
new monology, maybe this would work on hacker public radio.
And I don't think new monology is a thing.
New, new, new, my word, you're just doing so well, please.
Numerna is a thing in philosophy, as I described.
So I wrote the title of the piece as a joke,
and then that led me here.
So I guess henceforth,
new monology is a thing.
It will be cool if it was in the Oxford, English,
dictionary, you know, referring to this column,
Donnery Larry.
And they have to play this song.
Absolutely.
Then we have Paul Jay with great show.
Thanks to Harry Larry.
I enjoyed the background information.
And I love the music.
We'll be great to hear how you get into jazz improvisation.
Perhaps another show.
Thanks for sharing.
Nice one there.
See Paul Jay doing the work for us, you know, always,
always request another show.
Then we have the community news, which obviously,
without Kevin, we didn't say anything controversial.
He's always out there.
Oh, I totally spoiled it.
We could crack pop theories and stuff.
And that brings us on to one possible dish definition of hacker,
which is by Antoine.
And I realized actually thanks to former janitor Dave pointed out
that I hadn't updated the e-speak version of his name.
So that's been updated.
This is what says, love this content.
I loved listening to this podcast,
especially since I am one who loves life hacks
as well as tech hacks.
Can you do the response there, Scotty?
Yes.
So from Antoneo,
Antone, hi, Elzbeth, I'm happy really that it was enjoyable for you.
So the following day, we had do do zero.
Episode zero in a mini series about a to do application from
Jezra.
And this is the why episode why I'm doing this.
The cold first can be found on getlap.com.
Jezra do do.
Yeah, good episode.
This one actually enjoyed when I saw first saw what the exy talking about
was thinking do do was not what I was thinking to do list.
But I was glad that that's what it is.
That's really kind of makes sense.
Oh, it makes total sense, but it was just the first thing
appulsion in my head was not a to do list.
Yeah, I love this reasoning in the beginning of the show when he described how he tried
to pencil and paper method and everything and that didn't quite work out for him
and his overalls, you know, the gear and everything that he's wearing
and how they it wouldn't work in the environment that he's trying to work within.
So all of it is a big hacker themed show.
I very enjoyed it and I want to follow it through.
Yeah, and I also like the fact that he's not just creating the app there,
but he's also been proper through open source fashion,
you know, listing where it's hosted as well.
So other people can get involved.
You know, he's got the getlap page there as well in the show notes.
Brilliant.
And I'm enjoying his thought process with doing this,
that particularly I have many to do apps.
And as you say, the notebook you can never know where it is,
but you'll always know where your phone is.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Archer 72 says, I was just thinking about this.
Hello, Jezra, I was just thinking about this a few days ago in the grocery store.
Telegram has a checklist option, but of course this is a paid feature.
I am very interested in something like this that could be self-holstered,
looking forward to hearing the rest of this series from Archer 72.
And then Jezra replies with Archer 72.
Do do is a feature complete, and I'm using it in production already.
Self-hosted on digital ocean.
If you want to try it, please do and feel free to ask questions,
which will be answered in an HPR episode.
Oh, he knows how to tickle my fancy.
I'll tell you that for nothing.
You can almost hear you grinning right now.
I am actually near to you.
So moving on to the next day, which was the Thursday,
and this was the using HPR as a means to push a particular project of you.
This was the promised comments from the last episode,
which we dealt with in last month.
Somebody do torrents?
Scotty, can you do torrents?
Comment on our response.
Yes, please keep the HPR a religion-free zone.
I can.
I'd rather HPR was kept a secular place.
And I replied, please respond to the Middle East.
I posted your comment on the Middle East,
as per our apologies questions.
I proposed to discuss the Middle East,
which is open for anybody to join,
comment, and we'll get to those comments
after we go through the shows.
So the following day, we had the whole conference,
which was a quick introduction to Planet Earth.
And thank you very much to Ahuka,
who allowed his show to be moved in order to facilitate this.
We normally don't do this sort of thing,
because it really breaks or assess readers and stuff.
But this was a quick one that we wanted to get out there
for Merff and we have a long history
of supporting the hope conference.
Just coming in there again,
if there are conferences going on and you're involved with them
and you want to promote them,
HPR is a great place to do that.
This audience pointing to everybody listening to this
is exactly your target audience
for these hacker conferences.
So get in touch with us.
We'll conduct an interview with you prior to the event.
If there's call for papers going on,
we can support you around about the time
you're thinking about call for papers.
That's the time to get in touch with us
when you have dates, when you've got venues,
when you've got addresses.
We can do a quick interview with you about what the conference is about,
why you're doing it, why it's interest attackers,
where you go, what the price of the tickets are about,
all that sort of thing.
Anyway, the hope conference, quick introduction to what it is,
inspired by the 2600 magazine and the whole freaking scene,
which of course, if you know your HPR history and who doesn't,
HPR was initially proposed, Hacker Public Radio,
on the Radio Freak America,
which is also inspired, the 2600 dial tones,
where you were a phone freaking hacking,
the telephone network is back in the day when it cost,
huge amount of money to make telephone calls.
FPX says, the hope conference talks,
it's also worth noting that if you're unable to make hope,
I have never attended the conference myself,
you can still benefit from it.
The folks at 2600 who organized it,
eventually, when energy and resources allow,
post recordings of most of the conference talks online for all to enjoy.
It does sometimes take several months to a year,
but given they do so for free, one cannot complain.
There can be found on both the internet, archive and YouTube.
2600.com also sells complete sets of audio and video recordings for downloads,
and flash drives for your convenience.
The talks from this year's hope won't be online for a long while after the conference,
but recorded talks from previous hope conferences,
both technical and not often remain interesting and relevant,
especially given some of the individuals that regularly talk at the conference.
Thank you, FPX for that.
That's interesting to know.
If you're stoked for something to watch,
go back and watch some of the hope conferences and stuff.
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's great to see them making it available for those who can't get there.
Exactly, yeah.
I'm just hoping that maybe, I mean, I think I'm right,
and saying, oh, can't, doesn't make much of it.
There are a few people who record things,
but it's not generally unavailable anywhere, is it?
No, I don't think they have the kiss,
but Fostem, do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do the brain,
could infer no taking up, Fostem do have infrastructure for live streaming and events
and publicizing them and self editing and publishing them.
So if you give a talk at a Fostem event,
you can go to a web page, you approve the video, you press OK,
and then it gets published automatically.
And they make that equipment available to other conferences for they, you know,
for to do the same thing.
But it's a lot of work and it's a lot of work.
I could not take that on myself at last.
But in this day and age, you would imagine that a laptop and a three,
you know, a 5G network, you should be able to stream the events possibly and save it.
Yeah, that's it. But anyway, the end of the day, that's a desirable thing.
Of course, maybe if they do that, it's going to affect the actual attendance.
She can understand both ways, but you'd think though in this day and age,
a tech conference or tech event, we should have some tech involved as well.
Yeah, but you know, there are people who, you know, for accessibility reasons,
can come or for medical reasons, can come and would love to.
Yeah, probably time to interview the people about on-camp or other events that are coming up.
Absolutely, absolutely. And of course, that leads on nicely to somebody who I made
a dog camp last year. In this day, the flesh. Yeah, Lee. So Lee did a really good discussion
on episode 4441 with the on-voip voiceover IP. And he went into, he was obviously a fairly
early adopter of using VoIP and keeping his old number, etc. And he was went over the benefits.
I actually, I thoroughly enjoyed that. The one thing I'm a wee bit concerned about,
not with this is in general. I mean, it's been VoIP all of, you know, to the whole time to me.
But where did this term digital phone line come from? This seems to be a reason thing.
And the people are referring to VoIP. I never heard of that one, actually.
This is what the general public are seem to be calling it because somebody asked me about
digital phone line and I went, what the heck is that? And I was like, are you meaning a VoIP?
Anyway, I've never heard of that. I'm finding this is coming to it.
It's probably like a floss versus open source. It's going to make more sense.
Yeah, so he goes through, I really liked actually him going through the whole thing.
And he wasn't wrongs tinting it. It wasn't, oh, it's all amazing. It's all so much better.
He went over the positives, went over the negatives. I actually thought that it was an incredibly
balanced and well put together shoe. I really loved this one.
Yeah, oh, sorry.
Go ahead over.
Yeah, this brought me back to the old school days when I first tried VoIP.
I don't know if you guys remember Vonage or if they had it where you live.
Very terrible. Yeah, we had a lot of envy not having it.
Yeah, that was an excellent time when it worked.
There was a, he mentioned also here that they were able to connect the emergency services
to their VoIP back then. The emergency services did not work.
Today, I think it does work in some cases. I haven't played with it in a little while.
The last time I did was with JMP chat trying to get from underneath a situation I was
dealing with over here. But in your home, like an actual landline replacing that VoIP,
this all sounds very interesting, but I don't know if I can tackle it.
It was great to live by curiously through him in this show though.
Well, for us in the UK, some of England have already gone this way, but there was due to be
New Year's Day at the end of the year. But now they've put it back to New Year's Day
2027, but the analog phone minds are getting switched off, so everybody's going to have to go to VoIP.
So I know that our parts of England were already been switched off, and businesses are starting
to be switched off already. So yeah, you'd kind of hope that at least the emergency services in
the UK are already accessible now, VoIP if that's a case.
I'm interested in knowing if we're going to get better technology with this. So for instance,
my main concern would be filtering because, you know, scams. So if we're going digital,
we should have better technology to protect consumers in my humble opinion.
I would totally agree. I think at the end of the day, there should be. Well, we've got an option
on our phone. We're still on the currently the old-fashioned analog cable, but we've got an option to
reject any withheld numbers. They just won't come through. You've also got the option to
reject unknown collars, as well, which is slightly different because the but then your problem is,
there's a lot of companies, like the Dr. Surgery, etc. up here, is unknown. So if you block them,
it kind of makes like a bit difficult when you need them. But yeah, I mean, there's no excuse for
it, to be honest, that this should be. I'm not saying that it's going to be, but this gives
this real potential to, like you say, completely get rid of scammers from this day on age.
I love that motive of a sunny, of that motive of a point of entry to the house.
Yes. And the following day, we had orthopaediatric opiate, what it is, and Manon explains this
field of care and why we needed it. This was a request from Dave Morris, when we were over visiting,
and Manon has been thinking about it for a while, and then needed to do a course, so she decided
to record a show completely. I was just the tech, tech boyfriend during this. And that was it.
Yeah, there actually are a few positions like this in the UK, but not huge amounts here,
because there's like the, you get a whole, people get degree in pedagogy. We had to do it as part
of teaching. It was a bit overkill, to be honest. I mean, but the, it was, it was actually quite
interesting here in that, you know, she said most people haven't a clue when she says what
her term title is. There are people in this position, but they are also rare. Most of the time,
they'd be working with people who are generally just classed as caters. You know, I mean, there
are a lot of different levels, different pay, but they'll be working alongside them. Yeah. So
go that over. Sorry. Here in the US, we have something, but it's a little bit more generalized.
It's not as specific as hers. We have social workers, and they do very similar jobs when they
can. There's a ton of other things that they have to do, but this sounds very close to their jobs.
So Archer 72 says, interesting approach. Hello, Manon. Thanks for the show. I learned a lot about
the subject. It's very interesting approach that should be implemented worldwide. I'm located
in the US and the doctors here will be the first to increase those or add a medical medication
to fix an issue. It was pleasant to see a whole person slash situation approach. Dave Morris gave
us a comment. I enjoyed this a lot. Hi, Manon. Thanks for the shoot. It was excellent. I never
understand what your job entails and might be able to pronounce the word if I listen to some more
and practice it, regards Dave. Yeah. Anthony, love learning about this profession.
Things related. Children with learning deficiencies and their environments. Thanks for talking
about it. Yeah, very, very good show. I love learning new spell words, so I'm going to give this
one another go later on. Yeah. I think like a free software could do with a more catchy title,
like VoIP or something. Actually, to be honest, I would have struggled pronouncing it. Had I not
had to study the dash thing. I mean, to be honest, when I first were told we're studying it,
I think it sounds like a disease. Okay. The following day, we had the first doctor,
part three, continuing to look into Dr. Who. And this was the move to episode by Huka. And
classic, classic Dr. Rue stuff on history and everything you need to possibly know about Dr. Who.
Yeah, I was really at the said one thing I didn't know. I mean, I'm roughly just past where he's
doing. I went right the way back and start watching the first one, the first right from
series one all over. And my mind's come blank on her name. The first doctor said the grand
daughter. What was her name again? The young girl. Very innocent. She looks very young,
but Huka actually pointed it. She wasn't young. Although she was made young in the film remake,
she was actually in her late 20s, was maddened with children. I was like, what? She actually looks
like I would idea if she was tried to buy alcohol. So the following day, we had Yerun, who has
moved and has found time again to come back and pick up some HPR episodes. So this is an episode
on an ERP application called Auto. And ERP for those who don't know is Enterprise Resource Planning.
And Auto is a business management suite developed in Belgium and includes modules for customer
relationship management, e-commerce, billing, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And if you listen
to the episode, Yerun gives us a great little background to the old topic. Whose turn is it to do
the comments? I'll take it. Archer 72. My wife has a side business. Hello, Yerun. My wife has a
side crafting business. And this is an interesting application that will most likely
self-hosts solely in an inventory management aspect. Is there an option to upload a photo of
each item in the inventory? Thanks, Archer 72. And Jason Lewis, also the comment saying migrating
from NetSuite. Hi, thanks for this podcast. So with this thing and I can't wait for more,
my business has currently in NetSuite. And I'd love to hear about experiences migrating
business from NetSuite to Odu. And then the last comment was by Henrik Henren. Odu, Odu,
new to me. This was interesting to learn that this software exists for business purposes and
about their own business model for the software itself. So do do you part one episode one of the
mini series? Can we treat? Can't keep track of the notebook? Always know where your phone is.
You want to keep track? Use the do do. Rita says, I can follow your thoughts. Hi, Jesra,
this recording suits my level of understanding smiley. Maybe you later on also look at your file
structure. Have you ever thought about using this for your own development? And he points to hit
your 4091, which was from Norrist using pi test test driven development demo. And that was from
Rita. And Jesra replied saying, noted, yes, I will discuss the file structure in my next do do
recording. Thank you for the suggestion. A small test app was partially developed,
but I gave up on it due to reasons mostly I'm lazy. But I'll expand on that in the next do do
recording as well. Hey, nothing beats honesty. There you go. And despite me telling to the
coaster, not to use the eye, what does he go ahead and do?
I bring a eye to the rescue. Yeah, but this was super interesting actually. And you know,
this is totally allowed because, you know, he went and it's basically a review of the current state of
various different chatty, bitty, grok, Gemini and Claude and Mral and Deepseek. So he basically
asked the same questions of the various different AIs. And it was interesting, you know, because we
have such low penetration on the web. It's fairly obvious that the majority of the information
came from the Wikipedia article, which is why having a Wikipedia article is so vital to us
and feel free to keep that up to date as well, if you can. Yeah, I liked although they weren't
similar. I liked here. It was quite interesting here in the different responses of the different
AIs produced. Actually, I really did quite enjoy that because I must admit when I saw
the eye at the rescue, I can ask probably if you can all, but actually I enjoyed the episode.
So candy can eat her zero seven candy can eat her. Okay, interesting episode, interesting
way to mix a call to action with a more unique twist. I really hope people don't turn into
generous of AI. That's not going to happen. I'm afraid. Don't turn to generous of AI, not turn into
generous of AI. Did we have troll coaster in response? I guess I didn't get my point over.
Hey, candy can eat her. I actually wanted to get to get the point out how different LLMs are
very different in their biases and how you should be aware of that when you use an LLM.
But I agree that the last thing we need is LLM generated scripts or even worse, AI generated
voices playing AI generated scripts. While it is while it sells a problem for empty slots,
I agree I'd rather have HPR and didn't get stuff with AI slot. Yeah, guess the destination for
the end destination for all domain names is a porn site, but perhaps in future it'll be AI slot.
Yeah, and actually this was so apt purely because I listened to this and I think it was the next day
we had a guy who was supposed to in training, quote unquote, training. We're offering you training
for it was supposed to be being digital in the classroom. Someone like that, something.
And the guy came and oh my word, this guy just was, I felt like he was just working for a pro,
the pro AI industry. He was working for them. And I'm there as a former graphics teacher,
we don't offer graphics these days, but he was talking about oh, using AI to get all your graphics
done. And then he did something I've really annoyed the heck out of me. He was like, just type in
what you want. Look, we can make podcasts and he typed in a sentence and it made up this blurb.
And then he was, you don't even have to read it. Just do that. And this paid for two, which we
did not get access to, would then produce it. And then there was another paid for two to edit it.
And were there going, are you kidding? So basically you are taking out all the skills from actually
doing something. And I was like, the kids are never going to see this. I am never making sure my
base they are never going to see this. Oh, absolutely. I was sorry, go ahead or
I would struggle to not call security on them and have them escorted from the premises.
Because the idea that you were covered to a learning environment and then offer tools to
avoid learning, yeah, you got to go. Oh, trust me, we were all, I was worried actually by the end
because I was looking down the line and my colleagues, I think, I think it's just a good job,
all of us had, sorry, didn't have any tools with us from the workshops because I could probably
have been the one security was called. But the person next to me, I mean, she's a particular,
she's even more, her hatred of AI is way more than mine, even. And she had a pencil in her hand.
By the end of it, she had four bits of pencil in her hand.
Oh, it's classic. Yes. No, the other, it's amazing how much AI slop there is now.
Normally, I'm looking for stuff and I have all the disability I plug in in Libra Wolf.
But if you're looking for something generic, like a, I don't know, pair of socks or something,
man, you just guess. How do I wash a pair of socks? For example, all these web pages,
and you can just see that they've been generated like five nanoseconds ago with, you know,
interesting that you ask how you want pair of socks. It's very important when you're washing
socks, and then you go to the next site. It's the same stuff, the same stuff, the same stuff. It is
just so, it's killing the web as well as it is. I'm afraid to say. Yep, totally, totally.
I agree. Anyway, this, the following day was an interview with my great
Packert at Flavoyland 2025 Fieldwork Archaeology Open Day. The shipwreck is a Dutch
Wathership, with two compartments to keep fish alive until we reach a sport recorded by myself.
And it was a spur of the moment recording on my Android phone if you're wondering.
And thanks very much to Margaret for agreeing to do that.
An English language show when you're in the middle of a field in the Netherlands talking to
Dutch people. So that was really, really appreciated. There are, by the way, lots of photos and
videos in the show notes. Yeah, I mean, I, I thought I'd enjoyed this show. I was actually
listening to this one outside. I was doing a bit of work on the van. And I, I thought, what the
heck's he been smoking? Was my initial thing? You know, the shipwreck in the middle of a field?
What the heck? But it was really good. I thought I'd eat thoroughly enjoyed.
Once I actually figured out the context a bit more, I was like, oh, okay.
Yeah, that, that threw me for a little bit as well. I was trying to make sense of it. But
I remember Ken also mentioning in the past that there are like so many feet underwater over there.
Oh, I was, I was tick-bating you guys just as the introduction, because I knew we would be
getting to that in the discussion. So, but it is kind of funny, you know, you're, you're doing
archeology on boats. And I had a really good, I've been trying to get this photo to for
basic years. And I keep missing it every time to show how the context of how much underwater we are
like in spots. And it's difficult to show on a, on a picture, even if you go to Wikipedia.
But I, the other day I was driving, my wife was driving in. There was a articulated lorry.
We were driving on the dyke. There was a ship next to us. And then underneath us on a side road,
under the dyke was a like articulated lorry. And that, the whole scale of the thing was just
perfect. Then you, you could see the differences in the, in the heights, you know, to say there's
four meters on underwater kind of means nothing. But, you know, two articulated lorry heights
makes it more visible. But I mean, that's by the way. I really enjoyed this, this episode did not
enjoy preparing and uploading all the photos, but still. Clinton Roy says pictures too. I came to
say how much I liked listening to the episode, but then discovered there were pictures too.
Amazing. Thank you. And Henry Kerman says interesting talk about this boot and archaeology.
This was an interesting interview about archaeology and this specific type of boot.
Very nice educational talk with Margaret Packard. And thanks for also for the photos.
We have Antoni with that was sure a show. I love the clarity and even, and even in complete
layman can understand also the explanation and questions answered were absolutely one of one
one's interest. Hold on, let me start up again. We're absolutely the ones interested in knowing the
maximum. What adds fantastic thanks to you and Ken and Margaret. Okay, I'm going to butcher that name.
The gentleman in being interviewed. So, uh, Joseph says time to head to the wood shop.
Dear boat builders, let this episode be your inspiration to your carve your name,
place to attach to your vessels so that future generations will know the name of your sweet sweet boat.
It would be cool if the founders at the end. So, we time will tell.
I like to point out though, um, the audio was excellent and knowing that you just did that on a
phone at this very moment. I mean, there's no reason not to submit a show.
Yeah, a little bit of work was done together, that good I have to tell you.
But, yes, submit your shows.
Follow me. Well worth it in the end. Go ahead.
Good show. Good show. Yeah, I, uh, I was like a bit embarrassed that I did it because, um,
I went over to actually my friend Pucky, uh, also HBR host, also my son, uh, wanted to visit
uh, his friend who was working there. Poor guy. He was walking to the middle of this field, right?
And it was just pouring down with rain, just the whole way over like the wipers and a DVD,
double speed coming into the thing. The place was absolutely sulking.
And he comes up in his Wellington zone with his, um, uh, with his wet gear on.
And I go, got it. Yeah, it's, it's, it's a bit wet here or something. No, it's not too bad today.
It's been worse all week. Oh my god.
Just, it was something else. Uh, archaeology, I would not be my thing. You know, I, when you
think of archaeology, you think of like, um, uh, Indiana Jones and stuff, but, uh, no, it's mostly
crawling around in the mud from what I can see. Anyway, the following day, uh, YouTube subscriptions
part four, and we know what that means by now. It means that there have been free slots, guys,
free slots. Oh, the heartbreak. Oh, oh, why, why are they doing this to be?
Kevin, it's got to. Why don't you send it shows?
Careful with your wish for it. I've got a few for next month.
Excellent. Yeah, it's usually a bit slower during the summer, but even so.
And that's why the reserve queue is there. It's doing this job. So if you, uh, have some
shows lined up, and please send in shows, uh, if you have some shows that are lined up that are
not that urgent, chuck them into the reserve queue, and we'll, uh, we will mosey through them
when we have free slots. It is absolutely. Yeah. I mean, I must admit, when I saw the title of these
ones, I have to confess, I was, um, a bit apprehensive. I was thinking, oh, it's just going to make
much for, but I've actually really enjoyed. I didn't really think it would make much for much
interesting listening, but I've really enjoyed listening to, you know, the, the subscriptions
that a hookah has, and it's actually made me go on, um, back one check this out. Back one check
that one out. But I've got a little time as it is. So please send in some shows. I can't keep
watching YouTube all the time. Exactly. I like it because, you know, you know, the cruise ones,
I'm never going to watch that until I suddenly want to watch them. So, uh, but it's nice.
Quite a few nearly every, every one of these shows. There's one where I'm already subscribed,
or I will subscribe as a result of it. So good stuff. And I like his, uh, explanation as to why
he's listening to it. And does he watch everything or does he just pick a mix? Yeah, absolutely. And
also the, the, I think it was actually today's one, I have to confess one rather than this one.
Then it was, you know, he was talking about how he had absolutely no issue with, uh,
subscribing to somebody who doesn't release that regularly, but release really good content.
You know, and I was like, yeah, that's really a point. It's not about just kind of filling up your
feed. It's a bit quality as well. That's cool. Absolutely. Absolutely. Uh, and when I ever do get
wronged to my own version on that, I've since he started this show, what I'm also doing is when
I unsubscribe or decide, you know, I'm no longer going to, uh, follow that guy or a girl as a case
maybe, um, I'm also keeping track of those so that I can go, here are the ones I am listening to,
but here are the ones I'm not listening to and why I stopped listening to, why I started listening
to them in the first place or watching them in the first place, and then why I stopped. So now,
if you do something similar to yourself, that would make it an interesting show for us.
Part two of Odo is he on the virtual machine. Now that we know what Odo is, we know how we can
start it on a virtual machine and give it a go. And all the steps that you need are there in
the show notes for this episode. Thank you, Yerun. I was really surprised when he's speaking about
this. Just, I mean, I kind of got a glimpse of it as in the first show, but when he was talking
about installing it, and I thought it was, I don't know, in my own head, it was way smaller,
obviously, because he says, don't install all the packages, whatever you do, you know, he spoke
about it. Yeah, many of them was, oh, those are as big as project. That's like, uh, the WordPress,
so business stuff, you know, that, if you're not involved in it, you're not involved in this,
but, uh, lots of people are, I guess. Absolutely. Yeah. And Archer says, Odo in a VM,
Hi, Yerun, another great show in this series. I've been working a bit using vert manager for
virtual machines. And this is a perfect project to try out looking forward to your next show.
There you go. You've, uh, you've hit your minimum viable product there. One person has enjoyed
your show. And that's not true. We all enjoy your shows playing civilization part five, part two.
We continue our look at the game mechanics of civilization part five. And this is where the two
gamers talk and I showed up. Yes, I was thinking of that when you were talking about this last month.
And I was like, oh, man, that was a good show. Don't waste it. But yeah, there's one other one here
from Ahuka. Uh, obviously, he did a whole series on civilization for I, again, I enjoyed this one.
It's, and it's something that, you know, happiness is a real big thing with these kind of city
builders because you can have everything that is, you know, they can have jobs. They can have good
houses, you know, everything they need to survive. But if a life sport, they will very quickly rebel.
And it's, it's probably one of the most common things that ruins a city builder for the newbie.
If they're not sure about it, it's something they might ignore. They say, well, look, they've got
medical, they've got housing, they've got jobs, they've got food. Yeah, but trust me, if life
is boring, they will start rebel, they'll start cause factions. And the other thing I liked to
actually, I thought was quite good tip was the advancing eras. Now in most of these things,
you get the technology three. What I didn't actually realize was you could actually kind of skip
you could skip eras by advancing one technology three quite a bit. And like I said, I'm not a huge
civilization player. I haven't played it quite a while. But he was talking about you could actually
skip ahead and era by researching one tree super duper quick. And then since you, there isn't
effect to that, you do have to go back. So obviously different eras have different
er er technologies available. They also have different objectives. So yeah, that I thought I
had again, I thought I enjoyed this. I agree 100%. I think you said everything that need to be said
there. I would like to include it's funny how these games are built, you know, against real life.
If you try to make something too efficient, people get upset with you over it, you get a
little bit of slack in there for everybody to have fun. Yeah. So yeah, I didn't actually need to
take up the whole show. Yeah, like I said, yeah, you've got it totally good. And I they've been
these have been in the queue for a while. So I've listened to them quite a while ago, but it is
this whole series. I love it because it's just given me an understanding a little bit of
of the the whole gaming the way I gave her things and acts. And the other good thing is they're not
actually, although who does doing exclusively civilizations, the tactics are not exclusive,
like you could take this and try it in another city builder and you'd probably find that the
tips and general are good for different games. Yeah, a lot of them are modeled with the same mechanics.
So yeah, you can basically copy past it with those strategies. Speaking of game modding, don't
have time to play games all day. Apparently, the operator does and gives a huge list of game
modding stuff. Do you do any of this yourself, guys? Yes. And no, not with system, excuse me,
not with Fallout 76, but with other games. So, well, I get to her later, but yeah, we do a
little bit of it. Yeah, I do modding, not for every game is that easy to mod, but I like games.
I like games especially from independent developers, because very often they open up their API so
that they can extensively mod. So I mean, operator, this is one thing I want to maybe do our show on,
so I don't want to say too much, but operators spoke about ones that remove the grind and it sounds
a bit cheesy, but not all mods are like that. You know, I think it's probably worth pointing at.
There are plenty of ones that add expansions, add extra story line, extra view to parts. So,
yeah, I mean, this was a good introduction, but I like that. I want to maybe mention this in a
future show myself, so I don't want to say too much. Yeah, when you're modding, there's, you don't
have to actually change the game mechanics itself. One of the games that we mod, you can do things like
add accessibility features, so there may be certain things on the UI that aren't exactly noticeable,
so you can actually rearrange the UI a bit to bring out certain elements. In our case, it's the
survival. My voice is given out here. It's a survival game. So certain things about the character's
survival, you know, nutrition and hydration aren't exactly visible. You have to go through a different
menu to see it, so you can bring that stuff out on the screen somewhere where you can just see
it at a glance, that kind of thing. Oh, yeah, UI wants a very common, and the thing is that's not
cheating. That's just showing pretty much a bit of a better place, you know, where I said,
like I said, I think I just went in and we've been too much on the, they'll do things for you,
although he didn't talk with ones like that kind of, what do you call it? Like,
things that highlight a discoverable, I mean, that kind of goes up against the grain from me,
because it is a bit shitty, but at the same time, each to that own, you know, there's different mods,
different types. Is that shader? Candy can eaters, there are seven says,
multiple games. Making your own game mods is one of my favorite things to do.
Sorry, back off there. Making your own mod games is one's very interesting to do. Like,
it kind of indie games that are written in scripting languages, like Lua, GD script,
or Dreammaker, all of which are shows are really good to kind of slap your own thing into,
especially since a lot of them have built in mod loader, in my opinion, providing something
like that and making it easy to modify as one of the best things a game can do, especially
if it's open source as well. Well, right there is a series of shows, don't you think, guys?
Absolutely. I'm already looking forward to them. Yeah, the following day we had
turning coffee into cold slogans from tech companies, apps, and people. Five interesting slogans
from the software, like, and when I saw this one coming in, I was thinking like you with the
Hoku show going, okay, where's he going with this? But it was, it was lovely, it was fun, it was,
a nice little show. And this is actually when you do interview people are projects, especially
of Fostem. Quite a lot of the time you go to them, it was worse back in the day, but now it's a little
bit better, but you go to a website about a project and you get the release notes for what has
just happened to the project and nothing about my project is about this boom, so pretty good show.
Yeah, again, thoroughly enjoyed it. This was another, but yeah, like I said,
they did really enjoy it. It's funny. I think we're obviously, I mean, has it been a bit of a
people taking out an online course or something just on getting tied to some make us listen or
get us confused because they've hit the nail a few times this month. Excellent. And as we're getting
to the end of the month, there are not as many comments on the episodes, but no doubt people
will be commenting on these shows later. Now, that said, there are four comments on the next show,
which was IPv6 for Luddites. Luddites, he calls me. And Ron says, great intro, this was, by the way,
Benny talking to Andrew about IPv6 solutions, both, both hosts and friends of the show,
and people I've met in person on many occasion, and turns out Benny knows stuff about IPv6,
a fact which I intend to exploit both professionally and personally. Ron says, great intro to IPv6,
did I want to be reminded that I am old enough to remember when IPv6 was first introduced?
No, but I loved the conversation. Does have me wanting to try out IPv6 on my home network,
a nice test for my ASUS router running DDWRT? And Norris replies with, please post your talk. I hope
you get to present at the BSD conference you mentioned, but you can always do a HPR show using
OpenBSD ASUS router for our IPv6 on only home network. Very nice, very nice. Now, we have
where's Alice with a IPv6 on HPR. They give a nice little dig command there. I'm not sure if I should read
that, but look at the webmaster. Look like the webmasters should listen to this show.
To which I respond, I opened a bug to so you can help fix it. Hi, where's Alice? I opened a bug
and number 76 to track this issue. We are a volunteer service, so please consider helping us out
to resolve it. Please read the developer information at the link provided before you decide to
contribute. There may be additional costs, seriously though. There may be additional costs associated
with this, so we need to check Josh pays for the entire HPR website hosting, and if any more
wants to support him, you can do so by going to Anonisthost.com. We're going to be moving hosting
location soon, and I have asked Josh to see if we can get IPv6 support over there. You can also,
and this is not serious. This is actually also serious. You can help by adding some IPv6 shows
to our networking series. You can contribute your own shows about IPv6
to, and I give a link to how to record a podcast episode as you clearly have some experience
debugging DNS at least. If you prefer, you can go host with Benny who is looking for people to help
sit in with his shows. I've updated the requested topic, which apparently is nerd sniping
Benny, to include some IPv6 requests. Feel free to do an overshoot show or deep dives into, for
example, into the structure of packets, etc. And that's not just to, whereas Alice, but in general
about networking and IPv6, we could do with a lot more shows. There's the requested topic page
has been open for some time. I've now moved it over to the Git T instance, so you can edit it
and add to it and link to shows that have already been done, etc. etc. So hopefully that will make
it a little bit more accessible for people. And then Archers 72 AI, it's a trap, and he goes into
his feelings about AI and searching and stuff. Yeah, I think he's probably more in line with
the majority of us here to be fair to be honest. Maybe not there, get a younger one, but certainly
a, as of a certain vintage we can see. I do, I do see a lot of people using it. A lot of the kids
are just asking AI and accepting us. So yeah, that's just the way it is, I guess.
Yeah, I mean, to be honest, this is going to probably start if it continues. This is probably
going to start a new kind of topic in school that can never existed before. You know, fact check
in AI kind of spills, except on how to, how to fact check. Don't just ask AI is a through,
you actually have to go ahead. And then the final episode of this month was more subscription
channels this time featuring the fab five, phasier cane, four piece ranch, etc. Some cruises,
some beetles, and some, some other stuff that's over is in two. And there were no comments on that
so I'm going back to the main episode again. And we had two previous comments. I'll do the first
the first film was on episode four, three, seven, seven, which was back in, let me see,
May by tattoo, password store, and the past command. And it was by Ahmed Al-Mahmoudi,
sorry if I pronounced your name correctly. And that comment goal, would you have a look at
KPF PWD? It's a utility that I have written, and it's similar to password store pass to query
entries from key pass database. And he gives a link to his GitHub page. And there's a
CLI command line utility to edit files called KPCLI. That's interesting. Would in itself make a good
show if you're willing to do that. And the next comment was on a show from July, handcrafting,
and bartering discussions with Lisbeth. And there was one comment from Archer 72. Good to hear
a crafter. High Lisbeth, if any show would be helpful to my wife, this would be the one. She's a
fellow crafter making jewelry part-time. If only a podcast were her thing. Have you thought about
this type of show with a video in addition? She's a visual learner. Thanks, says Archer 72.
And that's the end of the comments, but we will go to the male list thread. And the male list,
the first comment was rejecting a show on the grounds that it's using hburs means to push
a particular product of view. And I was, that is where I was saying that I was going to record a
show which I did and was released this month. And I replied to Hendrick, who had said,
hi Hendrick, sorry for the delay in replying, we can drive little from the host except that they
said there was nowhere else to post to. This is a shame given all the people that commented on this
post wanting to hear this exact type of thing. Does anyone know of a religious podcast that accepts
submissions like this one? Do you guys happen to know? No, I don't have to confess.
No, I don't. Although to be honest, I don't think I know personally any other community
podcasts off top of my head. Most of them tend to be established podcasts that I seem to know.
Well, for those, if there seem to be enough people interested in this, and if you guys want to
get together, the source code for hbur is available. All our tools is available are more than
happy to help people out. Don't let the fact, don't let hosting be an issue. We can deal with that.
Don't let server costs be an issue. We can, we can probably get, we can get that all sorted.
What we do need is somebody who wants this sort of thing to happen, not necessarily for religion,
but if you want to take hbur's code, it's all there. Using something like the internet archive
as a backup, as a place to host your media, you have very little traffic on the main website itself.
So, you know, this is something that you that anyone could do. So if there is somebody
interested in that, it'll take some time, and it takes quite a bit of time to manage a project
of this scale, but it is worth it. And we are here to help. And the more people use an
our code, the hbur code, the better, because if you have suggestions or improvements, then all
the better. And, you know, if your shows are released onto Creative Commons, we can take one of
those shows and play it as a demo here on hbur itself. And to, to Kevin's point, he said he
didn't know of any other community shows. There's the logcast, and there's also
mintcast, I think, as a community issue. Well, they have set host, but people from the community,
I think can contribute like request to go and show. TLLTS would be similar. That's kind of like
round two in discussions, but I'm not sure there's one like hbur where you can just pick a slot
and it comes out into a feed. Yeah, that's kind of thing. I was more thinking of was, you know,
rather than it's applying to go on the show kind of thing, I was thinking of submitting shows.
That's what I was kind of more thinking of as I think this is pretty unique in that respect.
Yeah, you guys think that will take off for religion? Well, because I'm thinking this is going
to be purely like some sort of a religion thing if they wanted to do it. Yeah, I could. I mean,
doesn't have if there's enough people to submit shows and with hbur, we release once every day,
but you know, if you're doing another podcast, I don't know, on widgets or something, and if
enough people were interested in widgets and want to submit shows, it doesn't have to be every
week every day. It can be, you know, every single day including the weekend or it can be once
every month or whatever. There, you know, we haven't implemented that code, but I can't imagine
it would be it would be interesting for us to modify our code to support that. Whereas we would
pick our schedule and then you could from a configuration file, pick your schedule.
Have you ever heard of a flame war over widgets? Yeah, I have enough flame wars myself.
I mean, to be honest, I don't think you could. I'm aware of it, but can I say too much?
I don't want too much hatred. I hate Malia, but I don't, I'm not convinced you could have one
that's open to all religions. I think that would just result in the constant flame wars.
You might have like, you know, like Jewish public radio, Christian public radio, Buddhist public
radio, different ones. You know, I don't know if you could just go the whole religious public
radio. Yeah, but even, well, you know, like I just say Christian public radio, then you're talking
about to divide between Catholic, some Protestants, et cetera, et cetera. Okay. You know what I mean,
yeah. You know, it's like ham radio clubs, you know, for every three hands, there are four clubs,
so it's just the way people are. But I don't see why why you couldn't. We've had HPR
as a place. And anyway, I'll get back to the topics, back to the topics.
Rejecting, so this is the next post here is the one where I posted the comment in from Torin,
and I reply saying, first policy discussions are proposed on the middle list with a link to
this middle list, and it's open to anybody who can join. And I give a link to the government's
about page. And then I go on to say, I think most people agree that the show as posted fell
outside what is acceptable to discuss in a hackerspace. We are a tech podcast dedicated
sharing knowledge, but that's not stopping anyone talking about their views on religion,
politics, sex, drifter of choice, or editor of choice. That is part of who we are, and it informs
us as people. I for one would like to see people submit shows on religion that are suitable for
this hackerspace. These might be technical in nature, or more social like advice shows from people
not of that faith, but who have been invited to an attend an event in your place of worship,
or a coordinated round table discussion or series of shows where people of different or no
faiths posting their views on the same agreed topic with the same agreed format, but just keep
in mind that every religion has oppressed or been oppressed, and we are a welcoming community
that offers positive feedback and encourages respectful debate. But expect a well-reasoned
response to follow from your post. You can use the Religion and Spirituality series and keep it
to one every two weeks guideline for both host and your series. Anyone not into this kind of stuff
can use the Jeliki and filter out that series. So there there definitely is a need for this because
I know work with people, a lot of people from India, and it's been, it's been a constant,
how do I not, how do I not offend people? Thing with me, where I'm paranoid about this, so I've
been very active into that. So that's an idea of topics that you can do. I don't know, what do you
think guys? Are they acceptable or not? I know, I mean I think it personally, I think it would be
acceptable, especially when you're coming out of from a tech side, and I've no issue with that,
I can say, of interest to hackers, I mean, just say, for example, I spoke about how we use
open source software in streaming the services for the local church, that kind of idea,
you know, where you're not necessarily pushing one, but you're just, you're mentioning what you
are, you're mentioning your own belief, but you're talking about the tech side of it.
And even going into the religion itself, I don't have an issue with that, my father-in-law
is a religion teacher, so I'm quite happy to have a beer with somebody and discuss religion,
and I spent a year in a seminary when I was in college, just before anyone jumps to conclusions,
I was a CV caretaker in one of the buildings, so that was my job, but I got to stay there
the weekends when the students were away, and it was also just great fun discussing religion
with people around the table, so. So I personally find that interesting, and for the topic of this
show, in order to check it, I went to similar to us, rollercoaster did, or trollocaster did,
I went and had different AI versions, translated from Christian Judaism into, if you're a Muslim,
what would the equivalent be, if you were an atheist, what would the equivalent be, and that was
an interesting topic, actually, because I couldn't cross-check, you know, I'd go into the
Koran and just checking, you know, was this stuff that it made up or not, or was it real, and that
would be, you know, here's the body of text, and now we're going to the different AI's to see
how different religions would, they're taken this, you know, because at the end of the day,
you know, people are people, and religion, you know, is the guide to help you through your life,
so yeah, okay. I can see the flame war beginning to burn, you know.
Now, there's no need for flare moors on this, none at all. I think everybody knows we're coming
to a hacker space, and particularly when we're talking about something that could be, you know,
you're going to be, that's difficult for some people, acknowledge that, but also I can also see
that we're a mature enough audience that the people sending in the shows, so long as the people
sending in the shows, treated with Koran respect, then the listening public will do the same.
Well, the thing is, this could be, this is a totally different thing altogether, as I say,
dear, but it's not, it's so, I've been out with HPR treatment, but the one thing that I think
is missing in general is what allowed you to disagree with people, I not hate them.
It's, of course, the internet's gone completely the wrong way, hasn't it? I disagree with you,
therefore you must manate me, which we can just disagree. Yeah, we can. And as with many things,
I, you know, swings around about the world is not left and right and up and down, it's enormous,
or, you know, you might not be as far away from other people's point of view as you actually think.
Okay, last comment for this is Paul T says, as one, as I, I know of one existing HPR host,
who used translation tools for Bible translation, for feed distribution as part of his religious
convictions, as an atheist hacker type, I would be interested in the show about that process,
and how free and open source it is by Paul T. A. G. L. Mussel. And then we had the request
for community news, and I had a request. Part of you from, say, high folks, I have an interview
coming up with a person of the French disposition. And the guest would appreciate having a fluent
French speaker available to help to clarify questions. Is there somebody available to help?
And if so, can you respond to me personally? So this will take maybe an hour, maximum two hours,
and it's somebody who's just a bit nervous about coming on, doing an English speaking show,
and we great to have somebody there to, to support them. So if you, if you're a HPR listener from
France or fluent in French, you're not expected to talk that much, just there's moral supporter,
little bit of translation, we can edit you out or whatever, but it's a, it's a good interview
that I've been trying to line up for a while. So yeah, that. And my friends, that is the end of this
episode, says he alienating the very people that he wants on the show. I couldn't do it, I couldn't
keep my mouth shut. All French people now have a free pass to pull the piss out in my accent.
There you go. No, you've just ruined my kind of plans. No, I want to go and watch a pink pencil.
Yes. Do we have anything else coming up? Yes, in the background, we are moving our HPR hosting,
which is something, Josh, sorry, you can get around to I'm busy, I'm doing it. I promise, yes,
sorry, yes, sir, keep getting extensions on the homework. That needs to be done. The lads on
the janitors, led by Ron, et cetera, are doing massive work on revamping the website. It is
absolutely cool and working a lot better. So much so that I'm now going to Ron's site before I go
to the HPR site to find stuff because it's just so much easier to use. If you want to follow along
with that process, you can, it is on the get T repo links in the show notes. While links actually
on the every HPR webpage, just go down to the bottom and you'll see HPR source code, you can help
along there. We will also as part of that, be splitting out the about page into various different
pages on the HPR documentation, get lab instance. And the reason we're doing that is just to make
it a little bit easier, get more contributors over there, number one. And number two is that
we don't need to regenerate the website and we don't need to do all the stuff. If you just want
to edit a file, you can, in the documentation section, and you at least, you can just edit it and
do a pull request there. If it's okay, we'll just accept it as a lot lowering the barrier to entry
to, to updating the documentation part. So the idea will, is that we will continue to maintain
a lot of the stuff about the project on the HPR website or about the podcast itself on the HPR
website, but the how-tos and the requested topics and the stuff supporting us, we'll move that out
to the documentation page, but more about that to come. Anything else going on that I am not aware
of on the telegram channels and the matrix channels guys? No, not an extra that I know of. We've
been more activity on the telegram channels. It's been quite nice to see. Good stuff. Anything from
the matrix? No, you caught wind of the, should I talk about? Well, no. We have some interesting ideas
bubbling up over there on the matrix and can't wait to see some shows produced from them. Very good.
Yes, sold out myself. If I had a, yes, looking forward to it, I must say. I just got a response
back from Josh about the IPv6 situation and they're working on deploying us, but there are some
hurdles with the harder support, software support, etc. But they are going to, they're going to
but at least they're working on it. So, no, we won't have IPv6 for a while. Well, hopefully,
hopefully in the next 30 years we should be able to get to it. Oh, yes. It'll be matured by then.
Speaking of which, this month in 19 days, in fact, as of the time you're hearing this,
we will be 20 years old folks, 20 years old. Right. And I don't have anything else to add
other than that. Have a good one. Please send us cake. Please send us cake. Yes, who?
Yeah, exactly. Anything else, guys? No, that's it. No, okay. Not sending anything just now. We
project on the go that's now been amalgamated with as part of HPR, but we haven't done the first
episode yet. Release it. So, I'm not saying anything just yet. You tell me. You're going to do a show.
You owe me a show. That's how it works. I didn't know that it's done. It's recorded. I'm just editing it
currently. Sure. But this one isn't just going to be a show. This was actually destined to be a
podcast and myself and a certain friend have their decided to release it as part of HPR, not
and paint a podcast. Oh, very good. There you go. Very good. Very good. Okay, everybody,
tune in tomorrow for what will them doubt it will be another exciting episode of Hacker Public.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. Does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has
been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the
Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
