Episode: 4326
Title: HPR4326: HPR Community News for February 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4326/hpr4326.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:06:49

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4326 from Monday 3 March 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for February 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 73 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in February
2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Tom Falon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today it is the HBR Community News for February 2025.
Joining me this evening, live from the United States of America, is Scotty.
And from the United States of Scotland, it's also joining It's Kaby.
Okay, I want to be clear, there's going to be no mess in, there's going to be no chatting,
there's going to be no yarns and no crack tonight.
It's straight through business boom, HBR Community News.
What is it?
It's run down of what happened in the community last month.
We do the thing and we're off out of here.
We're not here for playful banter guys.
Is that clear?
If it has taken off my playful banter hat, I have one this series hat now.
Excellent.
Which one of you wants to welcome in the first, okay, let's do this again.
This news is a HBR community podcast, sorry, I've been off sick all week, so I'm not feeling
great.
So, but it's important that you know what HBR is.
It's a community podcast where the shows are released by people like you.
In fact, 442 other people who have listened to the show have picked up a microphone and
have sent us in a episode.
It's easy enough to do.
Your first show should simply be, hi, my name is and basically tell us about your
tech journey and how you got to the point where you're recording a show for Hacker Public
Radio.
We will then listen to that show and at the end of the month we will comment about your
show on this episode and then we will tell you other items that you could talk about
and other shows that you could send in.
So that is how it works.
HBR is a community, meaning everything is voluntary.
The whole thing is organized on a pure basis and we guys are some of the gentlemen who
come in and discuss, provide some positive feedback on what has been released in the last
month, but also bring you up to date and any news that has happened in the community
that you should be aware of that is coming up.
And as always, it is great to welcome new hosts.
We have two of them and would you like to take the first one perhaps, I don't know.
Is it Antonio?
Yeah.
Antonio?
Yeah, because he's a French name, but he's not French, I think he's Brazilian or something
like that.
Correct, yes.
And we also had Shane aka Stranded Output from the Linux Lands podcast, so great to have
him on board.
Excellent.
Two, two very good hosts having them on board and I really enjoyed both of their shows.
As I said, what we do is we tend to go the reason for the show in the first place was
to make sure that everybody gets some feedback on their episodes.
And the way one of the ways that you can contribute to Hacker Public Radio is by you
yourself submitting a comment underneath the show.
It's in every single feed on every single platform, provide feedback on the show.
You just press that link, it's in the bottom of the show notes and you'll be redirected
to a beautifully simple, highly efficient and flawless common system that will allow
you to add a little comment into the show.
If it gets too waffly, then even better press record and submit a show commenting on
the show that you've just heard.
It is the currency by which we pay our hosts is feedback.
So let's mostly through some of the shows.
We had started the month with HBAR Community News for January 2020-25 and there was one
comment from Lee and his response was quip lash and in answer to some guy in the internet's
question about ultra-wide monitors for gaming, I find that the extra width is mainly for peripheral
vision so it is not necessary to physically turn one's head left to right.
The effect probably works better for more curved displays.
Now, what do you think of that, Scotty?
Not a lot.
Apparently not.
From dead silence?
What have I committed to that, but we seem to have lost Scotty.
There we go.
Sorry, I was sitting in the wrong button.
I was looking at the monitor size and I didn't think about just using your peripherals
to kind of glance at it because the monitor is so wide, you know, I just imagine you had
to turn your head to see what was going on there, but thanks for answering the question,
yeah?
Yes, we're all very jealous of that monitor, it has to be said.
But I couldn't be honed by a nice guy, we met him Lee while we were at on-camp, very,
very nice chap.
Yes, absolutely.
And he's also been a very steady contributor recently, especially for THPR, been great
to hear him.
Yep.
So, desperate for shows, we had some guy in the internet, he gave us a quick update
about bash arrays, et cetera, et cetera, how it said works, and nobody saw fit to leave
a comment, which is very, very disturbing.
I think that is a good thing, I mean, every time I do a show and nobody asked to have
me thrown out, that's a win.
Yeah, we've done that sort of thing.
Yeah, no, I actually keep them coming Scotty, I really thoroughly enjoyed the show.
I must admit, I don't tend to comment purely because if I commented out, I've absolutely
ziltured to see on this.
So, that's the reason actually, I don't tend to comment, but no, I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I met a comment who had paused into this that some guy that seems to be of the impression
that he's not a 90 guy, and I just, to mind boggles when you produce a show at this level,
you should really be working in 90 years, just somebody, somebody give them a job in
90, please, thank you.
I second that, thank you.
And then the next day, we had another host on the call, Kevin, what would just spend
your £2,000 on?
And this had me thinking, this is definitely a good inspiration for a show, it has to
be said.
And I did like the fact that you have HVR hosting in there, and that is something Josh,
in the last month, it's covered in any other business anyway, but let's deal with it now.
We're going to need to move our hosting from the current third party provider to somewhere
else.
Josh pays for all the hosting, and the mirrors do the media hosting, but for some reason,
there's been a huge spike in the amount of data that's coming down from the HVR site
itself, which is a bit weird because we're not certain of any media from there.
We will identify what is causing that, but in the meantime, we will need to move the
whole back office or the whole HVR server and all the other stuff associated with somewhere
else.
So that's a fun task that we have ahead of us.
Hopefully it won't be as difficult as the last time because we've done it a few years
ago, things have, we skipped a lot of versions in the meantime.
So hopefully we're more up to date now.
But it does make a point there in your show, Kevin, that you bought lots of nice, tasty
stuff, which I couldn't agree or disagree with, but I have my own list, which I should probably
do, and about donating to the internet archive and the HVR hosting.
So there is a link there in the show notes for that.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, I have to admit, actually, I don't have a spare to grant.
This is what I would do if I did.
So I didn't actually buy any of these, but yeah, this, I can't take any of the praise
for this original.
This was actually the last episode of Lunox Outlaws of last year.
They did this, and I thought this is a fantastic show, and as you said, it's got you thinking
as well.
So I think this could maybe be a wee spin-off series.
Very good.
Let's do that, folks.
Let's do that.
Send in your show.
What would you spend your two grand on?
Yeah, I enjoyed the show, and I wanted to say I'm happy that you mentioned in the beginning
that it doesn't have to be, because I think you said originally it started off as the
euros, but you used pounds.
So anyone in their own currency could just imagine it being 2,000 of their currency and
going from there.
The tech that you showed off as well was really nice.
I love to look at these unique devices.
Were these Kickstarter devices?
The, the pellet was the Kickstarter device, but the other ones weren't known there.
But actually ones you can get.
All right, the Juno thing, right?
I remember seeing the Juno one in the past, but I thought there were excellent devices.
My eyes are a bit beyond to look at such a small screen now, but still super cool.
Thank you for the show.
Yeah, you're welcome, but the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the
political is the only one that was Kickstarter.
The other Juno.
I've got you got Juno tab, Juno laptop, and I can highly recommend them.
And fear phones always been one of those.
I want one, but I just, I'm not willing to spend that much on a phone because a phone
lasts me about six months.
Okay.
The following day we had trauma coaster, doing an interview with Yorick, the
maintainer freecat during their pre-Fostem hackathon.
And this was a bit of a win for us here on HBR getting this interview.
So well done to Yorick, and it was a fantastic, fantastic discussion about freecat and makes
you realize what all the, all the other stuff that's happening around Fostem, people
users is an opportunity to bring people together and push projects forward and, and inject
a little bit of life into them as well once a year.
Absolutely.
And personally, I think that a freecat is something that doesn't get enough coverage and really
our big thanks to all who work on it because that's, that's actually a huge thing to
be maintaining and developing.
So yeah, I'm really pleased to actually get a wee bit of coverage for that as well as
obviously Fostem.
Yeah.
I wanted to, I got to leave a comment on that one.
I wanted to hear a bit, if he has the chance to speak with him again, a little bit more
about the, he made a statement, Yorick made a statement about the code that they received
from the project that had canceled were, was a inhouse code and that they needed to raise
some money to, I guess, make it multi-dev worthy.
And I wanted to hear a bit more about that.
So if you're listening and you have a chance to, you know, reach out again, that would
be a great, a great topic.
Yeah, absolutely.
So the following day we had a playing civilization, was it four, part six and I commented saying,
I'm not a gamer, but I'm fascinated by the walk through these games.
To show covers, research, wonders and great people.
To me, it seems like probabilities from math disguised as a fun time smiley face.
And Kevin O'Brien responded the next comment with, well, it is math really.
The underlying programming is all math, everything is described by numbers, but then so is
the universe.
No, you ruined it for me.
This is where we have to watch, because this is where we tend to get sidetracked.
But yeah, I thought I really enjoyed it.
Again, research is something that has become a big thing more recently in gaming, especially
strategy games.
But yeah, like I said, please, I hope I keep on coming.
What they're just going to do it all the way up to civilization, is it seven that's
it's been released?
Yeah, I think seven is a new one.
Yeah, I agree.
I'd love a hooker shows.
I like to binge here shows, like just doing one isn't enough for me.
I like to get about like three or four of them to go.
And on this last one, I had the tiny human with me in the car.
Tiny human loved it the whole time.
She's in the background going, oh, yes, yes, dad, we got to do mine.
Yes, yes, yes, dad, we got to go do this.
So she's just repeating everything and hooker saying it's wonderful.
Excellent.
The following day, we had another one from Lee, Laura one and the thing stack.
And this was implementing a Laura one, which is like a long way, long range low bit rate
sensor network to collect data.
This was something that he did as part of a business hurricane, but then, you know, did
something to monitor the inside house and stuff and has some lovely little graphs in
there as well.
Yeah, absolutely.
It was great to see.
I mean, a lot of it kind of did go for my head, but I actually thought I'd enjoyed the show.
And good to see you actually there.
Like you see the graphical output there produced one comment, which was from me as well.
Great insight into Laura one.
So great look at the real world implementation of Laura one left me wanting more about
the topic.
Then I see the show notes and the scripts themselves are a series of shows.
So great stuff.
Essentially, if you could go through the scripts as well and tell us what you're doing
because those are also very interesting.
Yeah, I agree with you.
It's nice to have someone from the real world, someone that we know that's doing it because
I have always heard about Laura, but I had never actually known anyone that actually used
it.
So thank you for providing your insight on the project.
Fantastic.
Then we had Harry Larry the following day with the indie archive and this couldn't
come at a better time because it is a solution that I was looking at for a HBR.
We have a lot of media and how people approach this and what they recommend doing.
So the indie archive is there.
I can't if you want to read your own or was this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I just did excellent show.
Thank you so much for this excellent and informative episode.
I'd never heard of the indie archive before and I found this show really interesting.
As a podcaster, this would be something I would be very interested in.
I'd really like to hear a follow-up show in the future about how you resolved the issues
that you were having and also any tweaks that you made.
And from Harry Larry, the indie archive, I'm planning a follow-up podcast with more details
and I'll post the beta on Codeberg.
I do a music radio show, something Blus and Musicology podcast, Blus.
Yeah.
I think it's from the archives or something blue.
My something blue folder is almost 450 gigabytes and that's just the audio and images and
text.
No video.
Whoa.
Yeah.
This is my test case for transferring large data sets to the indie archive.
I'll be talking about that too.
Thanks for your encouragement.
Can somebody read the next show as my laptops just frozen?
Why I next show was HPR 313, why I made a one episode podcast about a war story and this
was by D.B.T.
Anthony.
Yeah.
Actually, I enjoyed listening to this.
It's only to be slightly disappointed when after giving us the introduction, he actually
said this probably won't be in English.
What?
Sadly, that really does make me a wee bit sad because it actually be honest, I quite enjoyed
it.
I mean, to be honest, HPR kind of has started getting me into enjoying dramas, kind of audio
dramas.
I've never listened to before.
So, this was a nice wee bit.
So, yeah, hopefully he does actually change his mind and make an English version for
us, non-German speaking listeners.
The heavy enough topic though, I must say.
Oh, totally.
Yes.
Yeah.
D&T says, welcome, being from Brazil myself, which I didn't know.
I have the privilege of listening to your piece in Portuguese.
It truly is a well done piece of historical fiction.
You have set a great example by having something to say, saying it and pointing it in the Internet
archive.
Congratulations.
Thank you and welcome to HPR.
Hyper-ISND there from D&T.
Anthony with, thank you.
Hi D&T.
I want you to see your comment here.
Thank you for listening and I'm glad you enjoyed.
Thanks for the welcome with kind words.
And I have an apology to make, of course, was Portuguese.
I'm thinking of another theme from the HPR episode of it, the German part.
I was wondering about that part, I was like, whatever.
My laptop is back, so we had honking the goo with, believe it or not, yes, check your
diaries.
It is the new year show coming out in February.
What?
My whole summer is ruined.
Yeah.
Yeah, I must admit, I enjoyed listening back, but I didn't, I have to confess, I did
not finish listening to the one hour of 50 minutes of this.
I did, actually, I ended up doing something mind normally boring, I think out of training
or something to do, and I just had a lot of playing in the background, it was excellent.
Were you involved in doing the show notes, Scotty?
Yes, I already listened to most of them.
So I used them and HP Lovecraft.
And yeah, in honky as well, he joined in on it, he helped get it out sooner.
It is, it's like just an amazing amount of work and having all the links and everything
and you go, wasn't even on this episode and then you take all the links and you go, oh
yeah, I remember that, so brilliant, great work to honky, great work to you guys for doing
that.
It really was actually quite entertaining, the kind of 20 minutes, I did listen to it,
but it did actually make me think I really have to get the finger out and actually get onto
this, for this coming new year, although that's a wee bit away.
Yeah, the new year's shoot, the new year's eve shoot, yeah, right.
They offer a lot of discovery for anyone that's new to the community, so if you are wondering
about different technologies or even in the mental health space, lots of discovery there.
Oh, totally, yeah.
In fact, I think I, I can't remember also to assure that the next, the other one that came
about where they speak about some people are speaking and then I think, can you say
that it's like, you do realize this isn't an actual show, you can't claim this is your
contributed show for the year.
Absolutely not.
I must say I was not a huge fan of the HPR new year show, but it is something unique
and special, I guess, now, as a way or particularly because it's mostly the Linux low cast
guys that do it, so feel shout outs to those guys.
Shall we do Dave Morris?
I remember that name seems familiar from somewhere, can't place it.
Anyway, my fix tag script and Ken's difficulties with it, there have always been a few problems
with the pearl script called fix tags, it needs a library called taglib and pearl module
called audio taglib, which can be difficult to install successfully, and it's referring
to one of the discussions that we had during this episode, a while at the issue has been
resolved in the, in the way, in the Tocetite, what's that in English in the meantime.
A while ago, I made a binary version of the script which Ken and Hunky use, but I discovered
there was a problem with that as well.
The two of the packages script includes all the pearl modules the script needs, but not
the external libraries.
This wasn't obvious to me at least at the time.
The binary just looked for them on the system that it was being run on, but over time it
became a problem as OS stuff was upgraded.
I recently found a way to ensure that all external libraries were packaged with the modules
and the script, and this solved the problem Ken and Hunky mentioned in the episode.
Both have updated binary versions, but I have yet to update the GitHub version.
I also plan to do a show about this very soon, Dave now also shows.
And if free play with a second comment, Transcode Script Dependencies just wanted to give
some feedback and offer a code contribution if necessary.
In the beginning of the episode, Ken mentioned his Transcode Script was broken by updating
some libraries on his Fedora machine.
This is a great use case for a Docker image.
If we containerize the whole tool chain need for Transcoding, we can ensure that dependencies
are never updated regardless of what happens on the host machine.
If you're not familiar with that process, I would love to help with that.
Just let me know.
We could create an image XHPR Transcode and kick off the Transcode using Docker run HPR
Transcode, call on the latest.
Anyway, love the conversation on this one.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Might do that.
Might do that.
But I was also doing that for the Transcoding of the audio text to speech.
And it's slow and chunky.
Yeah.
Turies out.
Turies out and first get the script finished.
It is still not 100% done a month later.
Most of the stuff that I can post to the Internet Archive and to be honest, I'm in the background
of this.
I'm still posting the New Year Shows to the Internet Archive.
But the Internet Archive has a really weird way of doing stuff.
So we'll see.
But thanks for the tip and I also know of another volunteer that I can call upon.
Need you, operators?
And from operator HPR, this episode perfectly embodies the spirit of HPR.
The New Year show creates such a wonderful sense of community and I'm definitely making
it a priority to attend this year's event.
HPR has given me a true sense of belonging and I'm incredibly grateful for that.
It's heartwarming to see people come together, sharing experiences and genuinely enjoying
themselves.
While the episode runs long, they are filled with authentic and meaningful content that
makes every minute worthwhile.
Heart, M, R, McRooty.com?
Yeah.
That's operator's website.
Cool.
And forward to that, actually, long time member of the HPR community got us out of a lot
of scripts when they show when the queue went low.
One of the people who were on my list, that's the good list, not the list you two guys
are up.
I digress.
I digress.
Well, yes.
Okay.
The following day.
We have.
How I got into the wonderful world of Hacry, I'm Shane and I host the Linux lab podcast.
And this is my introduction to HPR.
Great episode.
And I was thinking, yeah, obviously from Ireland as well, obviously, while he was going
through that, I was going through my own stuff.
So, yeah, very interesting insight into his background, how I got into it.
And also, if I'm not mistaken, he had three occasions where he promised an additional show
in that episode.
Not that I keep counting or anything.
We all know I keep counting.
So, just, sorry, go ahead over.
I was just going to say, just for the episode, I actually really chuckled.
I really chuckled when he was talking about him growing up and he kept on breaking his
face computer.
And he was just waiting for the wrath to come and he was like, yeah, they're back to
become, but this after the opportunity, each time to get it redone.
Yeah.
That was great.
Unfortunately, I didn't have that same response to my baby.
No, it's funny that the computer stopped and working always was never met with Glee.
Yeah.
No surprise.
Surprise.
Trey says, welcome, hello, Shane and welcome to HPR.
This was an awesome introduction.
You mentioned working to ensure you have high quality audio and equipment and while remaining
with the open source arena.
I would love to learn more about your selection and process for shows.
Even though HPR is very tolerant of a wide range of audio quality, I feel like it is
time for me to make some upgrades.
My first step is to learn more about what others are doing, looking forward to hearing more
from you on HPR.
Thank you, Trey for that.
And comment two is by Solar Spider Peter Patterson, who I'm not sure, has he commented before?
I'm not sure.
So film older and impressed.
Shane, great to hear your first show made.
I must admit that I failed to hold when you mentioned that you started with Windows.
I had the 80s with 8-bit and most of the 90s with Amiga before my first PC with Windows
in 1997, age 30 by that point.
You impressed me with your dedication to the log and to your shared podcast.
Linux and Hacker Space continues to drag us into involvement.
And from Steve Barnes, hi, I'm Mercy, I don't know if, yeah, Mercy, I guess, hi Shane.
Thanks for the introduction.
Thank you, Ram.
Thanks, I think, Fred.
Oh, okay.
Thanks for the introductory ramble.
It was nice to hear from a remote neighbor on a walk.
And Torren Doyle says, bliss of discovering the new Linux for the first time.
Hi Shane, a fellow Irishman here.
I remember well, my first time discovering the new Linux.
I started in 2008 with my first actual install on the hard disk drive.
It was going to 710 and glorious no to DE.
I later switched to Linux Mint and eventually settled on devian stable.
When I hear the term stranded output, I picture a guy sitting in a computer terminal with
green text on a black background and he's stranded on a remote planet.
Happy computing, smiling face, that's a good, and also good that Shane mentioned struggling
there with mental health, as I think we all do from time to time.
The following day we had a trollocoster, a small interview with Orion on his experience
as teaching kids to program in scratch.
Another great interview around the whole foster as well, if I'm not mistaken, they were
overdoing coding.
But scratch, absolutely excellent way of getting kids involved in programming.
The only time I ever got my kids doing any programming was with scratch.
Yeah, I'm thankful for that because I was trying to think of a new way to get my tiny
human involved in this.
And I totally forgot about scratch.
So this was like when, when right here?
Yeah, they use that in the scratch and the schools here to start them on and then I think
it's Python they move on to.
So yeah, it's, they don't have shortage of enthusiastic children here at least.
That's one good thing.
I'm mind blowing what the kids can do with the scratch.
It's like, is a very powerful little language there.
Absolutely.
It shows you as well what they can do and they actually put their mind to it.
It's like, what do you mean you can't write your name, but you've written this program?
Oh, let's talk to a teacher.
And the following day, the episodes that I possibly asked you to record, and you did,
recording an episode for H Pure and I think if we go back, we'll probably have a whole
series of recording an episode for H Pure and every time, I think I even put that in
the comments here and I'll retort it.
And every time I learn something new and different from it, and I install both these
apps, Kevin, that you're recommended in this great, great, you know, this is no excuse
here.
Look, you've got this phone and all these two in a way, which is, yeah, well, I remember
you saying it to me and I was like, and then I made some restarts, is are you talking
about, you know, which, which version, recording the physical show or talking, but coming
up with the ideas and you're like, I don't know, so I went for recording.
But the one thing I did think about, well, it was funny, I was trying on my mates computer
to find something, I mean, Rick was something that's in the repositories for me and did
simple, and I could not find a Windows alternative that was free or wasn't, there was one that
we found that was just so, it was just almost like spyware, it was so bloated with ads,
you're like, this rotten.
So if anybody does know for one for Windows and Mac, indeed, do you have a, yeah,
mm-hmm.
Yeah, I thought the show was well done.
I mean, right on topic, the whole way through, and if you didn't know and you made any excuses
for not recording a show, this just erased them all.
Yeah.
Couldn't have bothered about it myself.
Absolutely.
Uh, shall I do the comment?
Yep.
Yep.
Thank you.
Uh, Rito says, previous shows on tips and apps for recording.
Hi, Kathy.
As usual, a well prepared show.
I used for a while the app from Dolby, Dolby and the link to that.
It's called Applied, as it applies some enhancements.
Just for the sake of the overall picture of mobile device on PC, also listen to HBR36733
link, the show notes, recording using solo cast, which is 3496, while solo cast became
my favorite, you can record paragraph by paragraph, take break for how long you want.
And whenever you, uh, wherever you want after a paragraph, then when you're done, it will
combine the recordings into segment, apply noise, filter, truncated silence and export
a file as a flag.
Please give it a try, dear listener.
That's from Rito.
So solo cast, excellent, um, made by, um, who is it again?
Yes, our old friend, Norris and fellow, uh, janitor in the back end.
Yeah, I haven't actually tried that.
I will actually need to give it a, give it a wee look out.
I typically, uh, I was trying that and I, um, only rarely I do shows based on where I do
a script.
Sometimes I do the madhawk, sometimes I do more just script, but I've been meaning
it to give it a go, even modifications to allow my markdown, my version of markdown.
So that's very good.
Remember, we have the wizard wig now, and can yes, let's up with the dates on the
HPR future feed in Intellipod, and this one came out of the, uh, reserve queue, uh, and
it's by, um, D&T, and he's just talking about when I spotted that, it was going, why
haven't you reported this, and of course, after listening to the episode, I realized
that it was, uh, something that, uh, a tenifod does that, it doesn't show future episodes
in order.
Uh, he mentioned in the episode why that would happen and, and, uh, I can understand
why they did that now that he says it because, um, if you had a podcast feed and you had, uh,
you wanted your show to be always at the top of people's listening, uh, uh, so somebody
downloads ten shows, and they only have time to listen to five, so they'll pick the top
one.
So if you put the dates way into the future, it'll be the top one.
So that was what they were, uh, what their people were doing to, to kind of hack the
feeds.
Whereas in the case of HPR, the dates are actual real dates on which the show will be aired.
So that's the thing.
Yeah, I always found it interesting to learn how other people are listening to the shows.
I'm using one of Ahuka's methods, which is very manual.
So this was nice to hear to learn that there is another way.
So in case I get fed up with this one, I can move on to another.
I just have to be, sorry, go ahead, Kelly.
No, I was just going to say, I, yeah, I use antenna pod, but I don't use future feed.
I just going to do it day by day, uh, and I just like it purely because the, uh, I tend
to listen to HPR from my commute to work.
So it's the case of put it on the morning, hit stream.
That's it.
Yeah, very good.
The future feed in just in case people don't know is when we release shows, uh, they're
released immediately into the future feed.
They disadvantage for you of that.
The advantage, of course, is that you get to hear the shows way in advance.
So if you want to binge shows, uh, uh, uh, the Ahuka shows, for example, uh, they're all
tend to be uploaded at once and processed and released into the future feed.
So you can have all the Ahuka goodness you want.
The downside is if for some reason there's an issue with the show, be it audio, be it
related to the content, be it whatever, then that show might be taken down and re-issued
on another feed.
So even though you tune into the HPR future feed, it's also an arm to tune into a regular
feed.
We do like people contributing to the HPR future feed so that we can keep an eye on, uh,
audio quality and spammers and trolling, et cetera, et cetera.
As we do, listen to the shows once they're aired, we rely on people giving us feedback,
um, and we get that preferably before it hits the main feed.
So one of the things that you can do to help HPR out is submit a show, as we say, comment
on the episodes, as we say, but also if you just listen to the future feed and, you know,
giving us like this, this episode is only commotion, the left earboard or the, the text
is wrong or whatever, uh, that's always good to get it, uh, in the future feed before
it hits the main feed because that's an order of magnitude more pain for us to resolve.
Any other points on that?
No, not true.
I do have one.
This brought up a point about, uh, other feeds as well.
I got an email today from one of the hosts who was, uh, on another topic that, that had
me, uh, going to the other platforms that release shows on HPR and what I've noticed
is they only show the host as being hacker public radio and not being the host themselves
of the particular episode.
Uh, the assumption is that there are no rotating hosts.
So therefore they don't bother displaying it.
It might be of use to modify the feeds so that they include, uh, things like the host,
the title, subtitle, all the information that is not displayed on the platforms.
Uh, it might be a good idea to, to include that into the actual RSS feed now, uh, as part
to the show notes because apparently mapping RSS is too hard for people.
Okay.
Let's move on.
The only one has objections or thoughts on that to give us a shout.
Uh, and also another thing that, uh, related to the show notes is because of the, with
the big editor that we have now, uh, we can't really limit the amount of shows that they,
they bandwidth are because the images come up as part of the, uh, upload.
We can't set an open limit on us.
So people are basically, um, compote in any length of show notes that they want within
reason.
And there is a limit, but yeah, that's fairly high.
So that's one thing.
The other thing is there is still a limit on the maximum amount that you can put into,
uh, the RSS feed because it's, uh, it's basically limited like that.
So the question is, do we, um, do we like truncate the feed after a paragraph and put
in like this dot, dot, dot, dot for more information with a link?
Uh, those are thoughts.
If you have thoughts on any of this sort of stuff, uh, make a GitHub account or, uh, yeah,
discuss us with us a matrix links at the bottom of the HBR feed, or a HBR page.
I say do the easiest one that can be automated.
Yeah, yeah, I'm thinking of the dot, dot, dot, one anyway, um, and I'm interested to
know if they amount of bandwidth, like the turbines of bandwidth that we're pushing
now through Amazon is as a result of, of people pulling down the large RSS feeds all the
time.
Um, you know, that's, if that's not going to be necessary or and or, if that's not
going to be displayed on, on podcasts, catchers or platforms, then what's the point?
So we have an open call for people to adopt a pod catcher.
So if you've got pod catchers, please, uh, if you have a pod catcher and this is a very,
uh, and what to help out, okay, start the sentence again in your mind, because I don't
edit shows.
If you go back and edit that whole section out in your head, that would be great.
So and we take up after the cut.
So, uh, if you want to help out HBR as well, you can also adopt a pod catcher and if you
go to our GitHub site linked on a photo of the, uh, HBR site, HBR source code, um, we
have a list of popular pod catchers and pod catcher platforms.
And if you can suggest ways that we can, uh, update our feed to make the pod catching
experience more useful and make it more obvious that HBR is a community rather than anything
else.
Uh, so there's that.
Okay.
Next day says he who said don't go on waffling AM round on the edge.
Yes, this is a fiction book from Germany.
And I think perhaps I can't be this is where your German thing was coming in.
Yep.
Yep.
That's it.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I had the same thing going, oh, I'm listening to the episode.
I really want to read this book and then oh, it's only in German.
So, so now I have to do our German and Dutch, uh, actually, I'll send you a message
after the show.
No, actually, I really was interested in hearing this because I was, it's only a four-minute
episode.
That's what I couldn't get over.
And I was like, wow, I actually want to read this.
This is brilliant.
Uh, so what I actually did was, uh, I found it wasn't that difficult to get, uh, ebook
version of this.
And then I just put it through a translate tool and it translated the entire ebook for
me.
It translated the book into the literal, the savages live on the outskirts by close through
off.
And I've actually read through the introduction and I'm most the way through chapter one
and it is readable, but it's not fantastic.
It's, you know, it's typically translated, but I'll, I'll happily send you the translated
version.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Uh, no, no comments on that as yet.
It's late in the month, so it turned to miss on comments.
I was very happy with the piper, uh, read out of it.
And it was so clean and clear.
I knew I've listened to other shows that have been done with using piper, but, um, this
one for some reason just really caught my ear.
Yeah.
It's the Scottish lady voice was that I think she said her name at the beginning, but I
missed it.
Uh, like it didn't come through as clear for me.
So is that it in the show notes up there?
I see that he has a GitHub for a piper, but that's not the voice, is it that he used?
No, but I think it's the same one.
No, it's not the same one we're using, but, uh, yeah, it's a, it's a nice voice.
I, I found the same.
It's what, yeah, you know, it's a text to speech, but it was, uh, it was a good voice.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean, some, some are just so much more listenable than others.
That was perfectly listenable.
Some you kind of, it's almost like it's a robotic.
I couldn't enjoy the, but that was good.
Yeah.
You would say that coming from Scotland.
She said it very local.
I feel like I knew her from down the pub.
Yeah.
Do I know your people?
Do you have that?
Can be as old.
Oh, of course.
Yes.
Do I know your people?
Do I know that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, what's cool to do about it here?
Yeah.
Anyway, switching my master down the count.
Uh, and this, uh, was from a hooker, uh, essentially switching his master on the count
and, uh, how to do it.
I listened to this show about four times, uh, and it came out during the summer, uh,
and this is one of the future feeds.
So I knew it was coming out.
And HBOR had to bots and space was shutting down.
So HBOR had to switch, uh, from bots and space to, uh, HBOR at infosec.exchange, infosec.exchange.
And as part of that, I was terrified we were going to, it was going to, uh, how difficult
it was going to be.
And I listened to, uh, a hooker show a few times, read his article on, on it and basically
did it.
The amount of time it took me to do it was actually less than it took to listen to the
episode.
I was blown away if, if there ever was, and I said this before about HBOR, you know, how
do you know all this episode, which is the most popular episode?
And on HBOR, I feel, and this is my personal feeling, um, not that of everybody else on HBOR.
The most important episode is the one that has an impact on people.
And this one definitely had an impact on people.
So heads up, uh, had a shout out to Kevin there for, uh, Kevin, Kevin for doing this.
Thank you.
Yes.
I must have had, I can take no credit for this show.
Although I do use Master on half 90s.
Yes.
Kevin Central times.
No.
Great show.
Actually, great.
And it's, and it's something to be honest, people, listening should maybe just do
it, uh, uh, you know, just change instance now and again, because, you know, as he says,
last thing you wanted is to become a world garden, you know, that's definitely what Master
on should be.
So it is maybe something that people should play.
I must say, I was it, it did, it's a me, it is something that you should try and probably
do it with some, you know, create an account somewhere, uh, and just had some friends subscribe
and switch accounts just to test it out.
And it will shock you at how easy it can be to move accounts because I was so dreading
it based on my experience of trying to get my data out of a proprietary platform, but
when the platform itself goes out of its way to make it easy for you to do it, it's amazing
how simple it can be.
It's like, why should I need to re-subscribe?
You don't have to.
They automatically transfer over and you sit there watching.
This person has subscribed to 942 people have re-subscribe to your account while it just
works.
It works in the background.
It's amazing.
Yeah, just thinking about it, I might actually go on to start pulling down the information.
So I think it was a wonderful tutorial and I'll just do that just to back mine up.
I'm not planning on migrating to another server, but just, you know, he mentioned that it's
just regular CSV files and everything.
So I'll just pull them down and check everything out, great to know that I can.
Yeah, it is.
And seriously, you know, making a account somewhere, a thorough account and then just migrating
to another thorough account, it was just so slick and you hear, you know, big, not slaggy
off people, but people who have the re-sources to do it, making it so difficult to migrate
their account out and you realize, yeah, okay, it's not a technical problem, it's a vendor
luck issue.
Totally.
Yeah.
The crocs of it is Linux, my friends, see what I did there.
I like for it.
Just smooth.
Oh, yeah.
Smooth as a chainsaw, yeah.
Platoon.
Sad to see that GNU World Order has shut down, but delighted to see that platoon will
be submitting more shows here in H Pure.
So what can I say about this?
Nice episode about crocs, lettics and I really enjoyed the rundown and BS, you know,
Parsons to BSD, et cetera.
What did you think?
Yeah, I thought I'd really enjoyed it.
I'll tell you what it actually reminded me of was the first time I tried a bilgerone
distro back in the late 90s.
Yeah.
You know, it reminded me of the gen 2 manual.
Yeah.
You're on your own, miss.
Yeah, pretty much.
It was actually quite interesting, you know, like I said, when he was going through all
the different things, he says, we just take it for granted.
Where's the ISO?
Right?
You know, it's got nice calamari installed over there, but no, no, no, no, no, that's
not the way it was.
You need your own kernel, you need to go into, you need to have set up jails, cool stuff,
cool stuff.
That's it, I'm glad I did all that stuff back in the day, but absolutely, yeah.
On the other hand, I have, I'm using sunics or S now and you just put it in and the thing
runs and you just go, okay, here's my desktop again.
Yeah, having him go through the details as a person who's, who's not, uh, have done
this manual process before, it sounds nightmarish.
It also sounds kind of fun in a way like the building of the kernel, selecting all the,
uh, elements, sounds fun, unless you need it done, right?
So that's something I'd like to test out when I don't need to have it done.
You know, he mentioned doing it on the spare laptop and everything.
So, um, yeah, great show again, like as you mentioned, the new world order is shutting
down.
So he did give a, a pretty good warning, like, I think it was a few months back, he
gave the heads up on it.
So does he offer a download, like an archival download of the new world order?
Yeah, it's still on the website and I think it's also on the engine or archive.
If not, we can make sure it gets up there as well.
Yeah, because I want to just pull down like a massive tarball and go over it again.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Uh, yes.
I mean, one thing about, uh, if, if anybody is going to try something like, uh, you
know, building up your own, uh, I don't want to offer too long here, but just one
thing I would say is it takes a lot of work, make sure that you are running that the,
the, the, the repose behind it, the updates are more based on Debian and not based on
something like arch, because the last thing you can do is have a simplest and a works
one day and breaks the next when you do all the arch people will be writing in them.
Oh, yeah.
No, no, I'm talking about people who are doing it for the first time.
Well, I will, I will suggest if you're doing this, do it in a, uh, virtual machine on
your desktop to start off with.
And that way you can suspend it when you're, uh, when you're halfway through and pick
it up and set, uh, break points.
Okay.
I screwed that over.
Let's, let's go back to that point and, uh, possibly we could call up Shane and ask
his, to bottle his penis computer.
Yes.
Hi.
Hi, Mrs.
Shade.
What?
Mrs.
Output, stranded output.
Mrs. Output.
Well, you know, what else, um, containers are actually pretty fun.
Well, then again, the containers are kind of slimmed down.
So I'm not sure if it's going to have all of the packages in there that a regular
distro would have, but being able to just lob a container in, you know, yeah.
So lots, lots of avenues if you wanted to try it out, but thank you, Klausu, for all
your contributions.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So the following day we had fighting smartphone addiction by Celeste and he was suggesting
a, uh, Android app called time limit dot Android dot open and believe it or not, I was asked
by somebody for this very app, they're described something like this.
And I was able to go, what did you know that there was a HDR episode just this week about
that very topic.
So there you go, impact on the show right there.
Yeah.
And it was, I thought it was excellent.
Uh, I hadn't heard of this particular app before, um, but, uh, yeah, definitely worth
looking at.
The sad thing is the ones who probably need it are the very ones who would never touch
it.
Did he even install it?
Yeah.
But I think he can, he mentioned that the thing you can also, this is for parents to put
on the kid's phone and he can pin protected so that you can't undo it without a pin.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You do.
Someone want to read Anton's, uh, message.
Nice.
Am I experience areas?
Very nice sharing.
Celeste.
Thank you.
Recording was fine in quality.
My self control needs to be self control, wait, my self control needs to be self controlling
from the root.
If I don't need a web browser on my smartphone and I know that having it will make me lose
some time, I have no web browser on, on smartphone period.
I'm not very good on moderation.
More of yes or no, I have a, I have to decide on that ground of mine.
In any, and everything, uh, had periods like this before in, uh, then enter, I'm coming
up.
Yes.
Dave here and I with this.
Intercalate and indulgence, allowing navigation, podcast app, etc. Recently, I've
been a week without nothing on smartphone.
DSMS and calls, eventually, WhatsApp, which is deep sleeping.
Yeah, I guess that's another way to do it.
It's not installed.
You're not tempted.
Yeah, my brain does not work when I'm thinking, what do you mean a smartphone without a
browser?
No, sorry, but you can't cope.
Nope.
Nope.
So the following day, we had a response show to an episode from you, uh, some kind of
internet.
Uh, Scotty.
Good smart and laws, the duty to rescue in the Netherlands can talk to a safety officer
Johan about the laws covering for state in the Netherlands.
Did you get to listen to it?
You released this one a while back, didn't you?
Uh, I put the comments of this into a show before, but that was my thinking, uh, what
the rules were.
But I thought when I was on the, I had to do a safety marital training in work once a
refresher course.
And I thought, Johan, uh, what's the guy to talk about it because he knows he deals with
this.
So we went through the thing, especially they, I don't think I covered their do enough
resuscitation laws, um, before what you do and don't do.
So that was that.
Yeah.
We spoke about it.
And one of the community news is recently, yeah, so that, this is actually an interesting
follow up to that.
But I thought it was too good an opportunity to, to miss having, having him just to go through
it again.
Now, who, now who else is going to jump on the bandwagon and then, uh, provide a different
perspective, you know, from possibly from it, because this is Netherlands, uh, perspective,
I gave a, you, well, one slice of a part of the U S. So if someone else has a different
perspective, well, then again, some people did leave comments, but we need to, we need
to choose.
It was, uh, Johan was, uh, we had a good conversation offline about the, the responses
to your episode and he was going, but how?
And then, uh, I, I was, uh, give the examples and, and read the, the comments about, you
know, people being, uh, with the, with the health care bills as a result of calling
the ambulance.
Oh my god.
But that's all free.
Not everywhere.
It isn't.
Oh, okay.
So yeah, it's good to get different perspectives.
So yes, if you have a perspective from your neck of the woods, it's, it's good to know
this stuff.
Yeah, I don't know how easy this would be, but this would actually be quite interesting.
The more shoes we get, if we get a few more to almost have a bit like a map with, uh,
you know, click to hear the shoes, you know, kind of click on the country, dear, the
shoes just be here because it would be quite interesting.
I, I can tell it from a school's perspective, but as far as the UK laws go, I'm not
actually 100% sure what the UK laws are.
And what I can tell from my, my responsibility as a teacher, but I couldn't tell you through
any holiday as to what the laws are.
So yeah, let's get somebody's into the legal side and Britain.
Do you need to do a refresher course of your own, Ken?
Uh, yeah, we're, we don't actually need to, uh, it's, you know, it, but it is, uh, we,
we don't actually, it's not a legal requirement for us, but there is a legal requirement that
you have a certain percentage with a teacher, a pupil ratio that get reviewed, that they
have to have it.
And I think it's renewed every year.
So that's how we, that, track down the person in HR who's, who does that and, uh, throw
microphone in front of you.
If you can, I will try either you or whoever's listening to this, but again, it's, this
is how your series is start on HPR, you know, somebody puts in an episode out of the blue
and, uh, people comment, so good.
And it's possible even that the laws in the various different countries within the United
Kingdom might, uh, might be different.
I'd be interested in hearing from Australia for some, like, as an American, my imagination
tells me, like, people get killed all the time in Australia because it's very, like, dangerous,
spiders and all kinds of stuff.
So I imagine, you know, they must have something like what you just have to help people.
Yeah.
Cool to know, calling out all the Australian people.
Well, now that Klaatu's got some different ones, we can do one for New Zealand possibly.
Exactly.
So we put a time there.
Exactly.
So the following day, we had episodes two of the New Year show.
And this was more episodes.
Now, um, we also had a report, I think, uh, who is it that there was some parts, uh,
truncated silence truncated some, but some people out.
And then I was listening to the episode since, and it could be that there was a recording
break, um, during, during that period.
So if you've been listening to these, um, please get in touch with admin at HackerPublic
Radio.org with, uh, if you were on the New Year show and your greetings were not included
on the New Year show, please get in touch.
And I might chop those sections out and releases as another show just to make sure that
everybody, uh, everybody's greetings and well wishes for the New Year get out there.
That is on my list, but it'll be better if more people, you know, if you know what I mean.
Okay.
I know the shut up now.
Oh, I just realized something here, um, these, these don't get processed the same way because
of the, uh, the whizzy wig editor.
Yes, they don't.
Did you mean it to be like this?
Because I thought it would be like this.
Now, what you're referring to is that the links are, uh, are in the show notes are in
Markdown.
Yeah.
They give the markdown.
It's, uh, expanded.
I, yeah, it's no bother.
I'll fix that.
It's fine.
I'll go back and fix it because I didn't know, uh, when the episodes come in, I thought,
okay, maybe it's supposed to be Markdown, but then the links were actually HTML links.
So I didn't know, did you want it looking like that?
But if you don't want it looking like that, I can fix it.
It's easy enough.
No, no, no, no.
I mean, it's already done.
No need to go back and fix it because it's in the database and then we just regenerate
it.
And I do this.
I'm going through a process in the background of gathering the ultimate source of truth
for the, um, for all the episodes.
So we've got now finally all the episodes down from the archive.org and we go through
the different versions of stuff that we have and I'm thinking I'm actually going to resurrect
the speaks feed as well and go back and make sure there's opus for everything, uh, flag
for everything.
We will not be doing a flag feed, um, uh, maybe we might, we'll see if there's call for
it.
Uh, but on the other hand, if you get a flag of an MP3, if somebody sends in the files
in MP3, we convert it to flag.
So you're downloading a gigabyte of media for something that was like 15 megabytes.
So that was a point.
Anyway, I'll leave that open and we can fix it later.
The following day we had in Antoine with apt splunking, which was several, which is,
uh, a way to, uh, it's, you basically go through your package manager.
You look for cool stuff.
So he had a flutal keyboard for Android, which is got word prediction speech integrity
text and, you know, reader, uh, which got no hats and supports 150 feet, et cetera.
Yeah, listen to this one today and, uh, I must admit, I'm, I'm interested.
I'm always interested in finite new keyboards.
Just, uh, I used to use Swift before Microsoft bought it and I loved it back then.
It was uninstalled, rapidly when they got it, but I haven't found anything that's sadly
as good as the default one on Android, which I'd really want to get away from.
So I, uh, I'll maybe give this a try and that only just come out today.
So obviously there are no, um, no comments as yet.
Um, there was one comment on last month that we missed and this was from Lee, uh, the,
Lee show, white screens, sinky bikes, et cetera, the one where he's showing off.
Look at me.
A huge, cool, white screen monitor and it was from, uh, relatable days.
Uh, one of, one of spoons says relatable days saying it's a good audio diary.
So that was that.
That's all the comments for the month and then we will go to the mail list discussions.
Let's see.
And there was only one and that was from you, uh, announcing the community news.
You're taking over more or less from Dave.
How's that going smooth so far?
We've been going over a little back and forth discussing, uh, features and things that
nature, but everything is coming along smooth.
I, I can't say that, um, though I'm having fun doing it, I still feel like we're losing
someone.
So it, it, I don't know how to properly, you know, yeah, you know, we all know Dave is
a replaceable.
Let's face it.
Absolutely.
So I, I, I plan to just bug him off and on even after we're done just, just, just, just
be in a, one other thing that I want to mention real quick before I step away from it, talking
with Dave is so fat.
Just when I think I know a thing, Dave will just casually introduce an entire universe.
Oh, he's so annoying.
You know, so it's like, it, it has been a blast, the other way though.
Dave is a genius, a one in a million, yes.
But I'm glad he's stepping away because I'm missing his shows.
So he can send in more shows about stuff that he actually likes doing because I've been
doing the internet archive since he's, oh my god, how he had the patience to do that
for 12 years.
I do not know.
Uh, dedication.
There it is.
Yeah, it is.
It is.
But, um, yeah.
So that is, that's just pretty much that.
Let's see what's been going on in the background on the, on the news, uh, something, uh, Scotty
that we might want to do is, uh, have the change logs from get included in us at some
point, some sort of report from over there, um, maybe stuff like the, all of this we can
automate so that just, it comes into a page, uh, somewhere, um, you know, a little bit
some bobs.
If there's anything else you as a community want to hear about on this, uh, episode,
then give us a shout.
Um, other things that I've been doing in the background, yeah, gathering the, um, gathering
the all the media into one place, um, so that we can have us on, um, having a source
of truth turns out we need about 1.7 to two gigs of data is what we have at the moment.
So I'm saying that for the, uh, content delivery in network, we need to have about four gigabytes
of data, uh, storage available and the bandwidth isn't that much, um, but that's kind of where
we're heading at.
We're bringing online this week in another node in the US, um, and, uh, so I'm looking
forward to get that up and running.
Uh, we will be losing a US node, but that's okay.
Um, we can, uh, still available for, uh, background office type work.
Um, once everything's in one location here, I have all the, it will free up all the discs
that I need to make the second Dutch, um, uh, my brother in law's place, I'll send a server
over there.
He's got a two gig fiber connection with all sorts.
So we're quite good over there.
Um, then what else?
We have still to anybody who is experienced in, um, parsing Apache log files, uh, I would
be interested to know where this missing two terabytes of data, uh, went to who is pulling
it down and why and what we can do to lock that down, probably some AI scraping, but I still
don't know how we managed to pull that amount of, of data, uh, yes, I emailed our sync.net
to see if we could get an upgrade on, uh, we currently have one terabyte with them, uh,
we need minimally two, uh, I'd like three for the nice, but, uh, they haven't got back
to me as yet.
But if you know people who, uh, do open source, um, stuff, uh, you know, uh, our programs
for freely broken source, uh, projects like ourselves and can do hosting well and get
in touch because, yeah, more of the merrier, I guess, but we will not take advertising.
We will thank them at the end of the episodes and on the web page, but we're not going
to take advertising.
Thank you very much.
Anything else, guys?
No.
No, don't think so.
Do you think so?
Probably miss a lot of stuff now, but we'll, we'll leave it, we'll leave it off.
Um, did we have more comments, we'll have comments on back episodes that are we not doing
on this month?
Ah, good point.
We need to do those.
I was just thinking there's no way we did that.
And I'm just, I didn't sleep through all that.
Uh, so you mean the, okay, you take the first one then.
Okay.
So we've got one from an HPR 4106 and this comment is on my tribute to feeds by Henrik
Hemren and this is by, uh, Semluz M. St. Louis.
I listened, read your program and it has brought me a good insight about the use of feeds
and a possible software to it, Thunderbird.
In personal use, I have used web mail since forever, having tested options, but keeping
in the web also as I only get some information from laws and judicial decisions in my country
to stay updated after some considerations.
I have decided to subscribe by mail instead of choosing software, but I admit feed has
many advantages.
In my case, it was mostly laziness, opting for newsletter instead of it.
If sometime I come to get more personal mails, maybe I'll have to move newsletters to feed
for organization or if something have no option of emailing.
Thanks for the show.
All good to you.
Okay.
Cool.
It's nice to see that at least they have emails as an option that you don't need an
app.
My Henrik says in response to that message, oh no, it wasn't how I found Hacker Public
Radio podcast by Henrik Emmeren.
It was also by Semluz M. St. Louis.
I think that's Antoine, if I'm not mistaken.
Hi Henrik.
Nice to find your show.
A nice moment to share and for us to know the day you listened about and when you heard
HPR, I also appreciate you having the full text for us.
Sometimes I like a podcast this way just to read.
Just a comment on your show that my liking your show here.
Thank you.
My unasked testimony is I don't remember when I met HPR as soon as I had desired to participate
years ago.
Not a reality on that occasion, but now I have done that so far.
I've approved Mego on air and we'll wait, yes, and he's already proving to be a multiple
contributors.
So we're very happy to have Antoine here with us.
Just as a by the by, all the HPR episodes have a transcription associated with them so
you can read along and they also have an SRT file.
So if you download that and put it into your media player of choice, the subtitles should
appear.
All right.
Next we have on HPR 41 68 by a trickster, Beyond Economic Recovery, he says enjoying the
show time later, I didn't know what to expect from the show as I'm not familiar with the
works of the archivist now having listened to it.
I learned until now I thought about downloading items games as per show without permission
to be price, to be piracy and did not comprehend how archive.org had so much.
As you said, it might not be legal in some cases, but it is also a matter of safe.
Thanks for giving this perspective like your audio and voice quality.
Thanks.
Cool.
One log had a show called Libra Office importing external data from 224 September.
And Windigo says, and I agree with him, phenomenal tip.
I had no idea you could import HTML tables into Libra Office Cuck.
What a great way to make information on the web more readable and useful.
Short and sweet.
Thank you so much for this episode.
By the way, I've used that loads since then.
Thank you very much, Jim Log, for that.
Excellent.
That's good to hear.
Right.
And we also have got a comment on HPR 4269.
What is on my podcast player 2024 Part 2 by Ahuka?
The comment is by Ells Mossels, updates, Ahuka states at the time of recording that Mike
Duncan's revolutions podcast has ended was on hiatus.
It has restarted a new season on the Martian revolution as I wonder.
He has stated that he'll be getting back to the 20th century when he's done with Marsh.
Duncan's other new venture is the Duncan and Co history show co-hosted with Alex Poe
and the link to Alice S. Feet is given there.
Well, very good always nice to know when the show gets resurrected.
There we got HPR 4302 by Lockhebo or or wait is yeah, by Lockheboi.
Lockheboi.
New campaign trail playthrough and we have Simlove St. Louis played it.
What finding you give us what finding you give us to find I'm not an American.
So the mechanicals I thought would fit to my reality.
Anyone went there and there is a mod option to play.
Are you ready?
Paul the Apostle.
I am a Bible reader so I went to it a very deep and interesting playthrough.
I played on hard and couldn't win against the Barnabas and well in adventure and I appreciate.
Oh, so it's not just limited to American elections, there are other plugins as well.
Kind of cool.
Yeah, I didn't know about that and actually when I was speaking to the Wii game, he was
saying, oh yeah, he says there's quite a few different add-ons on mods you can do but
he says he actually tried, he tried it after hearing this one and it was like, I can't
remember it's like, you know, he played as Paul the Apostle and he went up against someone
I don't know, like Jimmy Carter or whatever, he didn't get a single vote.
Okay.
Okay, I think that is all done unless you want to extend the show for some unknown reason.
No, I've been biting my tongue the whole show, I'm not going to start talking now.
Yeah, I'm not afraid.
Um, yes, guys, thank you very much for attending and tuning in tomorrow for another exciting
episode of Hacker.
Public?
Rio!
Rio!
Rio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought
of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really
is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
