Episode: 4108
Title: HPR4108: What's in my bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4108/hpr4108.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:41:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4108 for Wednesday, the first of May 2024.
Today's show is entitled What's in My Bag.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is I describe What's in My Bag.
Hello everybody, it's me again, Swift 110.
Been at this a few years now.
It's been a while since I've actually recorded on here.
Thought I'd go ahead and start doing more, I guess I'll make up for it.
I'll make up for lost time and go through my phones and see what I've recorded previously.
Go ahead and finally post them on here.
I mean they're not exactly time-sensitive information after all.
So that'll be something to look forward to for sure.
You'll be hearing a lot more from me in the future.
So hopefully you like my voice.
I'm sorry that my voice is a little trash right now.
It's just from being extremely happy and talking a lot of work.
And I was able to go skating last night and that was very exciting as well.
So hey, it is what it is.
I'll take a sip of this water.
See if that helps.
Who knows.
Okay.
It's not so pretty good.
What am I going to talk about today?
Let's do an installment of what's in my bag.
Well, what's normally in my bag these days are the following.
15 inch 2015 MacBook Pro, which means obviously I'm going to carry its power cable and adapter.
Power adapter with it.
So boom, that's two items right there.
I'm going to also carry my iPad 9.
Again, that has a cable.
It's an adapter at the end.
So I can make sure to charge that up whenever necessary.
Thankfully, it's rare.
But I'm able to do that with my iPad.
Okay.
Great iPad and charger.
I also have a second cable that I got for pretty cheap.
I really, really like.
So I just carry that with me just in case I have another Apple device or somebody else needs to use it.
I have that just in case they are.
What else do I have?
Let's think about it.
Okay.
So I have a multi-point multi-point multi-point multi-point multi-point multi-power adapter.
That's in the shape of a cube that I got from Target.
Thank you, Target.
I'm not the dear sponsor of this particular recording.
But just a shout out nonetheless because they hooked me up with that thing.
It comes in really handy when you need to have a bunch.
You have need to have several plugs for different devices.
You know, you go to, you ever been to a coffee shop and they just don't have that many areas.
The plug in your laptop, the phone or whatnot.
And it's nice to be able to add plugs and just make it more of a better experience for everybody involved.
Okay, great.
I also carry actually what I'm going to start carrying is at least two USB-C cables.
It overkill, but right now I have a four foot, four to six feet.
No, it's a six.
No, it's a four foot or something like that.
USB cable, that's pretty nice.
Like a braided cloth, USB-C cable, the USB-A and the other end.
I plan on getting another six foot cable pretty soon.
That'll be coming handy.
And those coming handy.
Now that I've started just using the short little cables, probably about a foot long.
That's all I really need for a USB-C cable to charge my phone at night.
Just plug that into my MacBook Pro and just, when I'm going to go,
it's really convenient to use as well.
And so pretty much cables, laser charge, my iPad, as well as my MacBook Pro.
And then of course, I'll carry clothing, you know, usually shirts underwear for, you know, at least two of each.
And I tend to pack those.
I fold those a certain way and then put the laptop on them.
And it helps the cushion, the laptop, the bottom of the bag, because there is no other cushioning available in that manner.
So that comes in real handy as well.
In fact, that reminds me, I wanted to go to a store in Munich market today.
Because I don't have to be at work for a while.
This is quite the day to get on over there and see what they got.
It may have something I need that I could really use that'll help me in the day to day life.
So we'll work that out for sure.
What else am I, do I normally have in my bag?
My USB drives, my Ventoy stick, a couple of other drives.
I got my resume on it.
So I try to have big enough drives.
So if I need to download operating systems, swap them out or whatnot, I'm able to do so.
Transfer files from computer to computer when I don't want to do it wirelessly.
Because as much as I love KDE Connect, it can take a little time.
And I could just transfer a boom and drop and be done using the sleeping net.
It's always a good thing to have options for sure.
The bag I use is a simple $12 bag that I got from actually one of those discount stores.
The Titanium market.
I'm really grateful to have it.
Hopefully, it'll last at least long enough.
The bag I really, really want is from Timbuktu.
And when I go get that, that'll be something nice.
I currently have a messenger bag from them that I got.
And like 2012.
And boy, it's been through it.
So what I'm hoping is that they'll come through with their lifetime there into one to one thing.
And that probably is able to get a brand new bag.
That'll be amazing.
So there's a couple of things I'm trying to work on in the future.
Because I like, you know, you want to have a good bag, the sturdy, this waterproof.
That's actually going to last.
The last thing you want to do, oh my goodness.
And I've had this happen time and time again is that one of the straps breaks.
And those are all valid.
You definitely don't want that.
And so I'm trying to avoid having that issue happen at all.
And so just kind of working on various upgrades.
Now regarding the woods in my bag right now, the laptop by itself is little over four pounds.
Four and a half pounds rather each.
And I've had by itself as a pound and you factor in the charging cables and stuff.
That's probably another pound, which we had all that together.
And a little bit of clothing.
You know, that's part of it when you're carrying it.
You know, walk a lot and you're going to go a lot as much as I am.
You just want to make it a lighter and a compact kind of scenario.
And so I look forward to getting a 13 inch framework laptop.
That'll be amazing because that's nearly three pounds.
But that takes a pound and a half off of what I'm already carrying.
And that will be absolutely superb.
Just having that dollar machine.
You know, it does mean a little smaller of a screen.
I think it's a better screen than what I have in my book, well.
And definitely I'll get a much better battery life out of it.
And having a new machine will be faster and better as well.
I have to actually do a benchmark and compare it to because that one's using a new processor.
You know, versus the HQ processor that's been this 2015 that would grow.
The way for me to get a much better CPU, of course, would really get the framework 16.
I think all that one's kind of heavy, but it's also kind of expensive.
I could use it because I would really be spurging.
And so we'll see how things play out into the future.
But yeah, this has been an episode of installment rather of what's in my bag.
I'll be adjusting things periodically so that the function better, stay neat.
And of course, have a lighter weight that I'm carrying the room.
Four and a half pounds can be a bit much. It's not horrible.
I'm definitely not doing what I used to do where I would actually carry a T420 in an X201
along with an iPad at the same time and all the charging things that go along with that.
So at least I'm, I've gotten better.
See, at the time, I would go out and about do what I need to do, travel by Airbnb.
It would be a situation where I just couldn't choose which laptop I wanted to carry.
And so I would just say, hey, I'll carry both the modes of the library and walk with it like that.
And that was fantastic and all.
But I'm a little bit older.
I guess a little wiser and just don't want to do that anymore.
The only thing is I really, really prefer using Linux machines.
It's nice that there's some things I can do without thinking about it.
And I've got to go look it up and whatnot.
And so, you know, getting back to a Linux daily kind of program would be amazing.
Well, it's all I got to say for right now. This has been Swift 110.
And I hope you guys have a fantastic day.
Another installment of What's in My Bag.
You guys take care of yourselves. Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
