Episode: 4432
Title: HPR4432: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4432/hpr4432.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:38:47

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,432, for Tuesday the 29th of July 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 Hash 3.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 15 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is part 3 of my list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah and welcome to another exciting episode.
This one is coming out of the Reserve Q. So if you are hearing this, that is a signal
that shows are running low and you should do something about it.
It is not that hard.
So I am going to continue talking about YouTube channels that I subscribe to and there
is quite a few of them.
One of the things that I explained in an earlier episode is that I don't actually watch
much television.
I watch a lot of YouTube videos and so subscribing to channels is one way I get my daily
fix.
The other thing worth explaining is that the frequency with which these channels release
content is somewhat variable.
Now there are some things like news related channels that release content daily.
There are some channels that release content once or twice a week.
There are some that I don't think I have heard from in a couple of years.
But I still leave them on my list of subscribed channels because I never know when something
is going to suddenly pop up.
I was on a channel which will get to at some point World War II and they had finished
all of their coverage of World War II and had moved on to do other things and all of a
sudden they decided, no, we want to go back and do an in-depth look at this one battle
and suddenly I have more content coming.
So my theory is it doesn't cost me anything to leave a channel on the list.
So I do, so I've got a lot of channels.
So continuing from the last time, C-A-T-L, now C-A-T-L is a Chinese company that makes
batteries for electric vehicles.
Now I previously did an episode about electric vehicles and the battery technology and how
that's changing and that's how I, you know, in researching all of that I found this company
and they're really at the forefront of what's going on in this area and so I subscribe
to their channel and most of what I get is PR stuff, frankly, but, you know, occasionally
it's a little more in-depth and I enjoy hearing what's going on.
I am, as I explained previously, I'm going to be having to buy a new car one of these
days.
My 2012 Mazda 3 isn't going to last forever and so I'm looking at something more environmentally
friendly.
Now that, that Mazda gets really good gas mileage but I think I can do better the next
time around.
So that's why I stick with that.
The next channel I'm going to mention is CGP Gray.
Now, Gray is one of those people who releases content very erratically so I'm not here
from him for two or three months and then a video will pop up.
I guess that works for him.
I assume he's not making a living out of this.
But he does very interesting idiosyncratic videos where he'll see something that he'll
go, huh, that looks strange and he'll dig into it and he'll do a video explaining whatever
it is that he thought was kind of strange and it's fun so it's on on my list.
Now the next one is the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
This is the official YouTube channel for this satellite and as it says on the tin, you
know, this is a satellite that's an observatory that is looking at things in space using X-rays
different part of the radio spectrum.
So I periodically will get videos from them and they're usually pretty short, you know,
no more than a couple of minutes about something that they have seen with the Chandra X-ray
Observatory and we'll get some video data on what they've seen.
Next one is Crystal D.
Crystal D is, I subscribed to her channel because of she's a big Doctor Who geek and so I
get, again, infrequent and fairly short videos from her and it's about Doctor Who and as
you know I'm a big Doctor Who fan so that makes sense.
Now the next one is a channel that is called Civilization.
It's not the official channel.
It's a channel by someone who is a big fan and plays Civilization and you know a lot
of the people who do this, they will do videos demonstrating games that they've played
which can be interesting if they're a really good player.
You can pick up some strategy tips and things like that and you know that's basically what
Yogs Civilization channel is all about.
Now the official one is called Civilization-Topic and that comes from the for-axis studios and
so right now for instance as I'm recording this you'll probably be hearing this after
the game has come out but as I'm recording this we are awaiting the release of Civilization
7 and that is due in February of 2025 and so what they've been doing is some videos with
the developers and through about one a month in the lead up to the release and each one
is like an hour to an hour and a half long but you've got the developers they're going
through different aspects of the game explaining what they're thinking is and how they expect
things to work.
Now you know once the game is released we're not going to get that so much but there could
also be releases of expansions of the game DLC and all of that kind of stuff so there
will probably be more topics as we go along.
Now the next one is Clever Dick Films.
This is another Dr. Who channel Clever Dick does videos basically looking at each of the
people who have played the doctor and what their shows are like kind of doing an overall
evaluation of the performer and the era so you know he's started with William Hartnull
the first doctor and you know has continued periodically releasing another one I don't
think he's made his way all the way through to the current day yet but when he does release
one I like to know about it.
The next channel I'm going to mention is one of the news slash politics channels.
I've added a number of those recently as we just went through a election in the United
States in 2024 as I'm recording this and I'm pretty politically active and interested
in current events so I subscribe to a number of channels and Cliff's Edge is one of them.
Now I tend to be fairly liberal in the American sense which I guess you know social democratic
in the European sense something like that so that's the kind of thing you would probably
get if you followed any of the channels that I follow.
There are others so you know if you have different ideas find your own.
The next one is Coffee Break Languages and you know I have been learning Spanish and
we've talked about that before and there's something that I started doing when COVID hit
and wanted to make sure my brain didn't turn to jello so I started working on learning
Spanish and one of the places that I went to for some help with that is Coffee Break Languages.
Their motto is turn your downtime into do time and the idea is that they're like 15 minute
lessons but the channel is not the actual lessons in most cases.
The channel keeps me up on what they're doing.
You can buy the lessons and I have bought a number of them.
Next one is called Console Room.
Console Room is a channel devoted to Doctor Who again in this case specifically a Doctor
Who Convention that takes place in the United States it's a Chicago Tartus and that's
always in the fall the United States in well the Chicago area and so let's me keep up
to date with and they put out things you know if they have a panel with one of the doctors
or one of the companions they will frequently videotape or video record I shouldn't say
tape in this day and age the video record the the panel and release it on their channel
which is very nice so if you can't get to the the convention I can't always you can
still find out what went on there.
Next one content lit with Simon Faye Simon Faye.
I think I got into this originally because he did a very in-depth analysis of foundation
by Isaac Asimov the foundation trilogy and then I really liked what he did and looked
at some of his other videos and thought okay well you know he doesn't release a ton of
stuff you know it's been months since I've seen anything from him but leave it on here
in case he does do something.
Next one is called council of geeks.
Now earlier we mentioned break room of geeks why was that earlier because I'm doing this
in alphabetical order if you haven't figured that out and so council of geeks I discovered
a long time ago because the person involved Vera Wilde does reviews of different episodes
of doctor who and I thought okay I like that something I'm interested in and and I like
her take on things so I've been very happy with subscribing to that channel and keeping
up with with what she has to say.
Next one is called crash course.
How crash course is kind of become a fairly big thing in certain circles they've affiliated
with the public broadcast system in the United States the PBS digital they're affiliated
with that I don't know exactly the details and doesn't really matter but what they do
is they provide educational content so there's crash course science crash course philosophy
crash force history you know and they will do often a like a 20 week exploration of a
given topic like they did one on just a biology and another one on botany and you know
another one on they're doing one right now on religion and another one on political theory.
So it's fun I enjoy it and I'm a sucker for good educational content anyway now the
next one is crispy pro which is a fairly odd name perhaps but it's a person who is from
Australia who's a doctor who fan and does reviews of doctor who so you know just like
many of the other ones that I have subscribed to well that's about enough for now this is
a hookah thanking you all and encouraging you as always to support free software so bye bye
you have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work today show was
contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click
on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for hbr has been kindly provided
by an honest host.com the internet archive and our sync.net on the Sadois status today show is
released on their creative commons attribution 4.0 international license
