Episode: 4021
Title: HPR4021: HPR Community News for December 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4021/hpr4021.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:47:41

---

This is Hacker Public Radio, episode 4,000, and 21 from Monday 1 January 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for December 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 89 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Dave Rito and Ken Talk about shows released and comments posted in December
2023.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Falon, you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
This is Hacker Public Radio Community News for December 2023, where the HPR Volunteers
talk about the shows released and comments posted in December 2023, and joining me
this evening from Scotland is...
Hello Dave Morris here again, wet and cold and rare.
And from where?
Switzerland also once again, yeah, from lovely Switzerland, nice weather today.
And you would be?
That's Redo.
Very good, very good.
So HPR is a Community Podcast Network, a long-running Community Podcast Network.
So long, in fact, that we are now...
We are now...
It's two thousand five years...
18 years, three months, and eleven days ago that we started.
Ken?
Yes.
Yes?
Can you hear me?
For me, we're gone for a while and you, Dave?
Yeah, yeah.
Sometimes there's things that go on here where you just need to move away and check something
or turn something off or whatever.
What we do by convention is we just leave that bit blank and then the silence, truncation
will take it away.
So, don't be bothered by silences, unless they're very long.
Okay.
Anyway, Hacker Public Radio is a Community Podcast Network where the shows are submitted
by people not very much like you, actually, by you.
If you haven't submitted a show for 2023, that's very, very sad.
If you had, thank you very much.
And it would be an ideal time to get your show in for 2024.
So once a month, the juniors put down their brushes and or mobs, I think, mobs of
office and get together and have a quick chat about what's been going on in the HPR community
and anybody's welcome to join.
Hence, Rito.
So, Dave, you typically announce the new hosts.
Yes, and this time, unfortunately, typically, I'm having to say there are no new hosts this
month, but there might be different next month, but this month, no.
One, one, one, one, one, one, one.
That makes me a little sad inside, Dave.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, me too, me too.
Just to think, you know, there were people in January thinking, January 2023 thinking,
gosh, I'm going to do that New Year's episode.
And it would have been so easy for them all that time that they wasted scrolling doom feeds
to press record and just introduce themselves.
Hi, my name is, this is how I got into tech.
I enjoy listening to these shows, these are my favorite apps, that sort of, that sort of
thing.
But tomorrow's a new year, Dave, and we're releasing 260 fresh shows to the community,
Dave.
So, yeah.
Yes.
We're.
So, what's the plan?
Will we go through the shows first and then, yeah, let's stick with the plan.
So, what we normally do is go through the last month's shows to make sure that everybody
gets some feedback on the shows that they've submitted, starting with hookah shows about
New Orleans.
And it has one comment, who wants to take that?
I will.
Sorry.
Please go ahead, Dave.
OK.
It took me a while because the version of the thing I had here is needed to refresh, I'm
terribly sorry to say.
I didn't see the comment.
So, this was from Brian in Ohio, who says, wow, so how does a hookah make the leap that
Imperial, Japan, the German Reich, or a bunch of races to the fix to the problem is stamping
out white supremacy.
Othering people in any way is wrong, and the first place to start is in your own heart.
A hookah, it's called people of other political parties, his enemies.
White supremacy is not the only form of racism out there, all racism is bad, and the first
place to start is our own pride for hearts.
OK.
Didn't get that from the show, but fair enough.
The following day, we had the HBO community news, and we didn't say anything.
Dave.
We didn't cause no issues whatsoever.
Seemingly not.
No, no.
We must have got everything in the edge, then I guess.
All those swear words, and oh, yeah, that rents and everything, yeah.
Yep.
The day after that, we had today I learned a new series by yourself, some odds and ends
I learned today, that learned, the way you smell that, Dave, looks wrong.
I would have also learned, which brings you to there today.
I learned number one.
Today I learned number one, yes, because my spelling goes automatically to learned, but
I believe that's the way I was taught it.
And I'd never really considered that there were two versions of it and so on and so forth.
So I thought, I will check, and here's the results of my check, and I'll share it with
everybody else.
But otherwise, yeah, gone, no, gone, I've, I think these are nice, seems to be a popular
enough series already.
Well, yes.
A few people have submitted.
I've submitted one myself.
That was a hope that it might, it was just a brainwave ahead, and I thought maybe this
is something that other people would quite like to, because it's a relatively quick way
of making a show, and also, you know, spotting things about you in the world and commenting
about them, which is always a good thing.
Yeah, very good.
All right, we'll move on.
We had some guy on the internet with my rule recording setup, some guy on the internet
sort of, they're on the city by recording an episode, thankfully he didn't, but, yes,
this was fascinating.
I'd do enjoy listening to these sort of stream of consciousness things.
But it struck me that when you want to pay for things in America, it's a bit, bit more
weird than I quite realise, though I have been there and tried to use a card with a chip
on it, and nothing would take it.
So yeah, it's quite the, anyway, it just seemed to be a little bit strange, but that's
just, you know, a foreigner looking at somewhere and saying, oh, that's strange, why do they
do that?
Yeah, I found that difficult.
I got caught by that as well with the sales tax.
You know, I was coming home and I wanted to get rid of my dollars.
So I bought a nickname that was, you know, I don't know, $3 or whatever I had in my pocket.
And then I went to the till and they were asking $3.52 cents, and they go, the science has
$3.
So that's sales tax and then we got city tax and then we got local tax.
Oh god, the amount of maths that you need to do is amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, some companies here do that, they show the prices up on the shelves, even without
VAT, value-ended tax, which is a great, great expression.
And then you get caught, but it's relatively rare these days, you might find it in catalogs
and stuff, but, or they show both prices, because I don't pay, don't pay BAT, of course.
EU wise, you're not allowed to do that unless you're a wholesaler in which case you have
to ask the question at the beginning, are you a wholesaler or a private citizen in which
case you have met the choice then to get the numbers?
Yeah, and rightly so, in my opinion, it's less confusing for the thingy, although maybe
we're just averted to maths, Dave, you know, with our, with our metric system has a half
of 17 switch.
Yeah.
I know, I know, you want to do that 17 and a half percent of the thing and you know, it
just comes naturally.
Yeah.
So yeah, some people just can't do that.
That's us.
It's our, our loss.
Exactly.
Okay, and then the next day, we had Willand to X 11 bridge.
So did I know that I was running Willand, a little did I know that I would need a, Willand
to X 11 bridge.
All of a sudden I opted my Fedora workstation and there's a mystery dialogue box in the
corner without anything, without any windows, without anything and I was, of course, a bit
worried that something was running on my computer and I didn't know what it was.
So there you go.
Today I learned.
Yeah.
The series, Dave.
Yeah.
Very much.
It's, that's a really puzzling thing.
I'm getting a bit nervous about Willand suddenly coming in and making things break because
it's not, it's still quite unfinished by a lot of the reports I've seen.
So yeah, why would, yeah, I can see the need to change, but it needs to be something where
you can run the two in parallel and then you can click and make the change when you,
you're ready to go.
You know, you make a few, a few trials along the way, well, no, it doesn't work.
This breaks.
So go back to X 11.
That sort of thing.
Yeah.
The thing is, well, Fedora, if you run a Fedora, it's your choice.
You know, you're on the bleeding edge, but so far I must say I haven't had a lot of
issues as such.
Okay.
Rita, what are you running or do you know?
You mean the operating system?
It's X 11.
Okay.
I mean, I mean, I was able to, sorry, go ahead over.
I mean, it on the Ubuntu, you still run X 11.
I think Ubuntu didn't switch to valent by now.
So yeah, I didn't really notice anything.
I can still do, I think, I've been able to X forward sessions and stuff still.
So X, X I still works, which is a surprising, which is an application, you know, you have
two eyes, the follows, the mouse.
And I'm using that all the time now, because I've got four, I've got a four K months
we're here and a K months we're in work, and you just cannot see the mouse.
So I have that running up with the top.
Oh, that's good.
We, yes, I was introduced to X 11 in the early days of deck windows, which ran with X 11
because it was part of, you know, a project from America.
And yeah, we all got really excited.
Oh, you can put windows in the gory virtually, and you can also have cockroaches that run
under your windows and all that stuff, and it was, lots of time was wasted playing with
those nicknacks.
I don't know how it used it since.
So yes, okay, nobody commented on that cars, nobody likes me.
I knew it.
I knew it.
Why?
I knew you were inferiority complexes, that's what the mind is.
Anyway, some guy on the internet replies to multiple shows.
I'm actually amazed that this hasn't had comments.
Are they all on the other show?
Thanks.
Oh, yeah.
Gravitated.
I'm so looking forward to reading those, Dave.
And redo.
Okay.
Next day, holiday challenge.
Oh, we should probably tell people what that's about.
So yeah, people have commented.
Some guy on the internet had so much to say that in our rule, if you can fit it into
the comment text to your replies, then you should probably be doing a show, which is
what he did.
And that's excellent.
And then we had a tray coming on with some holiday challenges.
We mentioned this last month, and this was the sans holiday challenge.
And if people have done this, I know Daniel appears as keeping us up to date and hates,
but if people have done some of the other ones, why not do a quick show and just tell
us about just what your feelings were or what your thoughts were, how it went.
Would you recommend it for somebody else?
I'm literally talking to five minutes, you know?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's hard to know where to end.
It would be in my case.
I would want to tell you the gory details and hear the sounds of multiple clicks across
the universe of people switching off.
And that is, of course, their choice, Dave, but at least you've recorded the show for
possible.
Yeah, I know.
And we do have the text there, the transcription of the shows.
So you can always scan through that on any of the shows that you think, gosh, I think this
will be a little bit too long.
You can always scan through that, and you're not going to miss anything.
I'm actually quite happy that we're doing that because I was always in the back of my
mind that for deaf listeners, deaf listeners, there's a conflict in terms.
People hard of hearing, et cetera, that's our shows were not accessible to them.
And as we have accessibility bugs, will always be a P1 on HPR that kind of stuck in my
crawl.
I'm glad that OpenAI has brought us that at least with Whistler.
Yeah, it's useful, isn't it?
Credits where credit is due, although sometimes the translations are a little bit, if you put
that word.
Yeah, it's good compared to what was before.
So anyway, the following day, we had Daniel Pearson's giving the Advent, Advent of
Code, the 1-5 catch-up summary, which was great.
Do you, Dave, will you read Norrisus, come and there please?
Yes.
Norris says, brute force, we'll only get you so far.
This is in response to Daniel's talking about how he approached these particular problems
1-5 in Advent of Code.
He says, since they don't have a strong background in math or computer science, I've been using
the only tool in my belt, brute force.
Through the first five days, I've been able to solve that half of the problems.
Each day has two parts, sometimes I can solve them both, sometimes I can only get one
of them.
Some days I don't solve any.
As the days go on, the problems get more difficult.
By day 10, I've not been able to get any solutions.
I think we need a brute force, only Advent, to smile your face.
Very, very good.
Yeah.
I sympathize with that view, actually, because being an ex-biologist, math and computer science
is not just stuff that I've picked up along the way, rather than being taught it.
So, yeah, I've not got very far with them, and I haven't really tried to be honest, but
yeah, understand.
Sort of like a hacker's Advent accord, not...
Yeah.
...dubby, lead to a different thing entirely.
People might have different expectations than that one.
Okay.
Move it up.
Move it up.
Okay.
Sextortion.
Good heavens.
Ten comments.
Love the nice quiet shows.
Oh, anyway, we shouldn't be treating this one lightly, actually.
If people have little ones listening to the show now might be a good time to nip over
and press pause, desperately fumbling with the car to press pause.
We've got to start talking about this one.
Okay.
That's even with truncate silence, that should be enough.
I will read the first comment calls, okay?
It's my turn.
Okay.
Another guy in the internet.
This show was very opinionated.
The nice thing about this, probably, have we explained?
The show was about sex torsion, taking photos of yourself, particularly young people
and putting them online, et cetera, et cetera.
The show is very opinionated.
The nice thing about podcast and radio is that you can monologue whatever nonsense you
like and act like it's the single truth in the universe.
That's exactly what's going on in this show.
First there is some useful information about sex torsion, the forms it manifests in, and
consequences it can have in real life.
That's the good stuff.
Okay.
Turn off.
Back to the comment.
Then comes the bad and straight out, ugly bit, where the speaker starts off with a pretty
factual analysis.
Eventually, he slides into a very much opinionated stance against any form of digital eroticism.
Don't do asterix, asterix, asterix kids, where have we heard that before, right?
Seriously.
Well, having a problem with the fact that people exchange nudes in their sexual discovery
journey, then that is just your own moral problem.
Do not project that on the rest of the world, please.
People have done that about sex drugs, music, religion, beliefs, cultural habits, and pretty
much.
Everything we humans designed to entertain ourselves and to carry out our identity into the
world.
Saying don't do that really is totally random moral stance since what is found to be offensive
in your part of the world might be totally innocent behavior where I live and vice versa.
So again, because reputation seems to work for Coca-Cola, don't project your random moral
objections onto the world.
They are legit, they are hopefully yours to keep, but don't try to push them further
than that, because that is just randomly stupid.
Okay?
So yeah, I didn't get that from the erotic from the episode, but yeah, okay, understood.
So next question, yeah, go on, here is your listener, go.
Here is your listener.
I think we should probably hold back our own comments on this one because there is enough.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, just, and Rita, can you do the one after that, but give me plenty
of opportunity to nip up quietly and grab a cup of coffee.
Yes, sure, I hope my action stays up.
Okay, don't worry, I did this whole thing out in script like we normally do in post.
Comment number two from HPR listener.
Poor quality is the title.
Scotty, up to this point your shows have been good quality and well considered.
I would preface this with the fact that yes, sex torsion is something that exists, observing
some basic safety measures when using the internet could easily prevent it.
It's a societal problem in, especially in the age of social media.
This show, however, was a hideous disappointment, utterly condescending to other human beings,
nearly any victims of this, moral panic, ridden, pearl, clutching nonsense.
You opted not to actually speak with any victim of a phenomenon about their lived experience,
nor did you cite any actual subject matter experts such as Ava Galperin, cybersecurity director
of the EFF works with sex torsion victims, Violet Blue and author and journalist who covers
the phenomenon and adjacent social tech matters extensively.
Your sources are meant to, the FBI, a government agency known globally for utter incompetence
in understanding social phenomena and known to frequently lie to further its own, often
ill-considered goals and read it, read it.
This, that's a fairly clear cut case of source bias.
It mentions of evidence that you opt not to cite directly or clearly.
Nothing whatsoever beside moral grandstanding and a baseless belief that you have any right
to tell others how to conduct their personal lives.
Seriously, do better.
So then I will go ahead with the next one.
This is from some guy on the internet.
Yeah, title is the show title.
Thank you another guy on the internet.
This comment would make a great show.
Please offer us a show correcting all the issues with my show.
I'm sure we would all enjoy it.
Thanks again, some guy on the internet.
Will you continue Dave?
Yes.
Comment 4 is another one by some guy on the internet who's referring to comment in total
poor quality.
Thank you, H.B. Arlesner, sounds like you've got some great information on the subject.
As everyone knows, I'm no expert, but you seem to have more to say on the topic.
I would enjoy hearing more about it, maybe others would as well.
Please do a show providing us with better information on the topic.
Thanks again, some guy on the internet.
Excellent.
I'm back.
Good response is there, I thought.
H.B. Arlesner.
H.B. Arlesner.
Poor quality.
No, some guy on the internet.
I do not have or better not to put any, I've better not put any intonation into my voice
here for fear of getting reprimanded.
No, some guy on the internet.
I do not have anything to say on the topic because I am not a victim of the phenomenon
mentioned, nor am I subject, matter, expert.
I have the humility and good sense, sorry, it's hard.
I have the humility and good sense, respect for and decency towards actual vision, victims
of the phenomenon to state that you have or do not.
This is not a make your comment, an episode occasion.
This is a some guy on the internet makes a short episode apologizing for the community
of misconduct, does some actual research, not an editor editor or incompetent government
websites and points to those sorts of occasions.
It's something you need to do and correct yourself.
Nobody else.
Okay, and I'll do my own response, which is opinions are allowed on H.B.R.
The H.B.R. motto is literally on every page.
Your ideas, projects and opinions podcasted.
Some guy on the internet, your follow-up show was sufficient response.
This commenter is trolling at this point.
Should I do Bob?
Please.
Bob says, great show, high scotty.
Great show.
Well, I'm shocked that USM employers would do what you suggest.
I'm also not naive enough to suggest that they would not do it.
I'll also empathize with the commentator's points, but would just say that because the situation
is not how you would like it to be, doesn't mean that that's not how it is.
Quoting the FBI is fine as they do have a responsibility for child safety.
There's a link to one of the things that they do on this site.
Thanks for the show, Bob.
I do the next comment by Mr. X.
Please.
You missed some points.
High scotty.
I'm not sure it's Mr. X.
Because we have a host called Mr. X.
Sorry, by X.
Yeah, right.
We have some anonymous commenters here.
Sorry, Mr. X.
So this is by X.
You missed some points.
High scotty.
You missed the risk of ending on a child sex offender's list.
There the GDPR is not applicable.
As most jurisdictions, there are required to keep records for 20 years.
Any job that involves interaction with the public requires a background check.
While that just provides a pass or not, you still are excluded from many public and private
sector jobs signed by X.
That was not sure.
I know that in America, there is a, and I think this is a public list about sex offenders.
I don't think we have that in Europe, do we?
Oh, we do, for sure.
Every job that interacts with the public, my daughter is a trained conductor and my wife
works in healthcare and you apply to the local council, local council sends an application
form to the police department and the police department.
The question is, are they allowed to work in this area and the police department will
reply with a yes or no?
And you have to have it.
And if they refuse the job based on that, you can't claim anything.
You can't claim bias or anything, that is basic factor of life.
Do Kevin O'Brien's number nine comment?
Kevin says, great show.
Scotty, if you don't occasionally piss off someone, it means you aren't saying anything
worth listening to.
God, he must be well worth listening to this week.
Is that it?
Oh yeah, it's a 10th.
Rita, will you do that one?
From another guy on the, or from, from another guy on the internet, the 10th, right?
Sorry.
So the title of this comment is controversy is a good thing.
I follow up to my initial comment and in counterbalance to the other somewhat harsh comments
on this piece, I do appreciate the fact that you brought some controversy to this place,
controversy, having discussions is a good thing.
And having different views on subjects is a prerequisite for that.
So in any way, Scotty, although I indeed have a problem with how fact and opinion got
mixed up in the episode, I still appreciate you made this show and looking at the amount
of comments you actually earned some kudos to bring some more life in this place.
Cheers, I got to.
Okay.
That took, that was appreciated.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Controversial is the word.
Yeah.
And I think, I think if you are kids, that's what he said wouldn't have been as, wouldn't
seem as opinionated.
And I think to, to his fairness, he never said you shouldn't do that.
It just said don't get caught doing that.
Yeah.
The thing is there's plenty of evidence and this is why you don't get the whole FBI and
news reports.
I mean, if you go to the BBC or your local publication of choice, your newsfeed, your daily
newspaper, you see that somebody broke up with somebody and they're in court because
they sent naked pictures of their ex-girlfriend around in the WhatsApp group or whatever.
So yeah.
Sorry.
Yes.
I applaud some guy in the internet for his, his reserve in responding to that show.
So we will continue.
Reolink CCTV cams was had to be from operator and this was a show about them and how to
get them working and stuff.
I can't say that would be my first choice now considering the FAF he needed to go through
to get them working.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was in case you thought they were going to have them, it would be quite useful, sorts
of information, but yeah, it made me, made me run away from that.
Exactly.
I got some, during the build here, I got some cameras, IPTV cameras and I could, it was
able to get to the, they had a horrible app at the front, but I got them because you
could have them save snapchats to a FTP server and you could record the streams, two different
types of streams.
So I've got four of them, but to be honest, I turned them off because they were making
me paranoid.
So I don't, I don't have them.
If somebody wants to come in and take away my plasma TV that I don't have, well, good
look to them.
Yep.
Of course, I'll be here when they do break in, they're stole by a oscilloscope.
Yep.
Anywho.
Next day, no comments on that episode, by the way.
Playing Alpha Centuri 3 by Ahoka, part of his computer strategy, well, not his computer
strategy series, but part of that series nonetheless.
And this was a walkthrough and how to the Alpha Centuri 3, which as you know, no, I was
sanding the door of my shirt while listening to these episodes, so it brings back nice
summary feelings.
Yep.
Yep.
This is cool.
No comments.
No comments.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's a continuation of the same, the same general theme, but developing nicely.
The Intel Hex file format.
And I was amazed, this is Brian and Ohio, don't via text to speech.
I was amazed actually, this still exists out there.
And I thought we had a comment on this, but I don't see any.
No, I thought of sending a comment actually, because there was a time when I moved from
Lancaster University to Edinburgh, where a colleague and I were collaborating on a project
for a BBC Micro, and he was doing most of the work, but I was doing some.
And we used to, we send one another, ROM dumps, but no internet in those days.
And we used, oh, serial connects as my, yeah, my Amazon delivery, excuse me, my 3D printer,
anything else you can show me my face.
Big bucks, Raspberry Pi Fives.
A special Raspberry Pi Fives, yeah.
Yeah, you're the balleray now.
You know you.
But the voice, the voice was really terrible off this Intel Hex.
You think?
I thought it was another, it was the e-speed voice, but it had a bit of a Scottish accent
to it.
Yeah, it wasn't on my thing.
Okay.
I don't know.
You want to be careful about criticising the e-speak around here, or you'll get a lot of feedback.
You think sex torsion causes feedback here.
Criticise e-speak.
Okay.
Well, Dave is doing that.
We'll move on.
Comment show.
Go ahead over.
Yeah.
This is from Scotty, again, to...
Yep.
Sorry, I thought Dave was coming back.
I am back.
Yes.
For it.
We're moving on, Dave.
What do you guess?
Yes.
3D printer.
Yeah.
Boxer-Roster Pi Fives.
I've got a re-man.
What's a re-man, you're asking me?
It's a thing for me.
I don't understand.
We can't tell.
Scraping.
Yeah, of course you are.
It's a thing for me.
It's a thing for me.
Scraping inside the pipes and holes you've drilled.
But it's also really useful for 3D printing to take care of.
Ah, very does us.
We get to the job every time people.
Wouldn't you like to have a 3D printer and a re-man?
I just...
Imagine it, Ken.
Yeah.
This is an ongoing discussion.
About to lower something or other.
Anyway, yeah.
More money than sitting, Steve.
More money than sitting.
Re-mins are about £5, so it's not really.
As I said, more money than sitting, Steve.
Anyway, some guy on the internet did a common show about
the previous comments that he had.
Why on the subscribe?
Oh, this is kind of strange now because we will have the comments.
Shall we...
Do you know what?
We'll skip on.
He's commenting to comments which we typically do after we review the shows.
So let's leave this one open, shall we?
And skip to the following day because there were three comments in this one.
I know, David's going to upset your stomach.
I was doing this, but let's try something new, shall we?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Change.
Smartwatch is gross.
Operator talks about his setup and issues with smartwatches.
And yes, I was listening to that as a race train station while I was raining.
Which, if you've ever been to race train station, it's always raining.
Even in the middle of summer when there's no rain falling.
Anywho.
It's like, yeah, there's a junction.
Hold on for a second.
I need to look it up now.
Yeah.
Limerick junction, right?
It's where you change in order to go to Limerick.
But it's in the middle of nowhere.
There's no village.
There's no nothing.
It gets stuck, stranded on there, waiting for a train that goes the other way.
So, yes.
Is that in the Netherlands?
Doesn't sound very, very pleasant.
But my daughter says that she's a train conductor or a train chief head train conductor.
She's responsible for the safety and the trains.
Anyway, she said that it's like a Harry Potter train station.
I was going, oh, what?
Is they, or the, they, they, they have her life.
They, you know, a staff room is like a Harry Potter.
It's like Harry Potter race.
I go, what do you mean?
Like, it's in between the two platforms.
No, it's like a copy hole under the, under the stairs.
That's a good picture.
Yeah, it's a letter.
Anywho, what has that got to do with smart watches that are girls?
They weren't bought, bought smart watches and issues with them.
I got, I got a few and I kind of get them away because I don't do watches anymore.
I have no desire whatsoever to, to own one.
My son and his girlfriend both have them and they were cooking for me the other day
and they're both talking down their sleeves, you know,
to set a timer for five minutes.
Yeah.
Not very well, but I'd soon go to a thing with buttons on it and put the buttons
just look at, look at a clock on the wall or something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's, it's maybe different in difference in generation or something,
but I don't see them as particularly desirable.
I had, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I'll see.
Interesting thing about watches though.
Did you know that they were considered a lady like to have it on your hand?
And it was only on World War One when they wanted to go over the top
that they start up with men, start up with watches on their wrist.
I didn't know that, yeah.
Yeah, before it was in a pocket, you know, pocket watches in the side
that you would look at the watch though.
Yeah, there you go.
I did have a pocket watch for many, many years when I was younger
because I thought it was cool back when you got there.
Back from the front too.
Yeah, yeah.
Actually, you needed a waistcoat, but if you had a,
I don't want to know those funny little pockets you had on jeans back in the day.
Ah, yeah.
We're just slipping there on the chain.
It's really good.
And yeah.
I shouldn't have revealed this.
I might regret it.
That's the reason for that pocket on the jeans by the way.
It's all right.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I did use it and it was good and it was quite nice to have a windy
uply watch on the chain on there.
I like that.
I would do that again with a smartwatch even, but I think I might have my time has gone.
Oh, God, this wasn't in the script.
Okay.
Following day obviously, Paul Squampton, Cryptographic,
updated for the first November 2023.
This was in the reserve show.
I need to flag the reserve show once actually.
But by the way, this is a good update.
It's something a hook is doing because keeping us up today.
So how well they're getting on with the making our cryptographic functions,
bulletproof for quantum stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes, it's quite, quite a heads up.
I did not really thought about the issues here and the fact that
I'm in order to counter the quantum technology,
you've got to have the equivalent to respond with.
But how then do you go about creating a new key or something?
You need to know the neighborhood quantum computer to get one, I suppose.
Yeah.
Well, this is a way to use conventional computers that we would use key signing
that would be easy for conventional computers to do and difficult
for quantum computers to break.
And that's the, they're going through that process now evaluating mechanisms
that schemes.
So they have a few probable ones, but there may not be very practical at this point.
That's good.
It's not a thing I'd given any consideration to or even understand.
So yeah, good to be pointed in that direction.
And you have to consider that quite a few had some vulnerabilities
and took quite a while to get really good ones.
So when you would start to change them, you probably would run into the same issues you have had in the past.
And there's also the biggest risk is they changing out the existing ones.
It's not going to be a drop-in replacement.
So all the infrastructure around us will also need to change.
And that will probably lead to more of the vulnerabilities, even if the mechanism isn't vulnerable,
than having to change the underlying system, maybe.
Okay.
We'll move on.
Some guy in the internet again, putting it completely on topical show up.
Where your secret has some guy in the internet talks about putting a dollar value on the human life, the value of life part zero.
And I thought he was going to be talking about real estate agents, but life insurance people and claims,
because that's what they do day in and day out.
But it was more like a science fiction journey than anything else this show.
Yeah, I was surprised too.
Nicely done that.
Great, great, some great points there.
What's your value in the world of surveillance if you refuse to be surveilled?
Didn't know surveilled was a way to be honest with you.
Yeah.
So if you're one of these people who hides away from it all and doesn't take all the offers and stuff that gets you, gets you noted,
then your value is lower, which is quite a fascinating board.
I've recently set up a phone for somebody who, you know, I'm not going to be managing the phone.
So, and I asked them, are you comfortable with all this and with all their digital leaks that Google have or whatever.
And the usual response was, yeah, they have that information anyway.
But it's amazing how easy your life becomes when, you know, you just go, you got a new phone.
Do you accept all the terms of conditions?
Yes, I do.
Would you like to copy your stuff up to the internet?
Yes, I would.
Shall I download the backup copies from your previous one?
Yes, I will.
Shall I think of this?
Yes, I will.
And then everything's back.
It's seamless.
Yeah.
Right up until the...
It just cost you privacy.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And when, again, when you see the, when you see the cookie question coming up, which by the way,
should have in equal prominence refused those cookies.
When you see how difficult they make it to turn them off, you know,
where you individually have to go in and turn off legitimate interests.
It can be.
It is deliberately done not to be easy.
So it could be easy to do it a non-creepy way.
But there you go.
That's it.
That's life.
We move on.
So the following day, another one in today I learned, which is the third person contributing to the show,
which is the series, which is also good.
Mr. X, who stole my show?
Ah!
I have a written.
I have an empty file.
I have got an empty file marked on file ready to rock.
And Mr. X stole the show.
It must have been that time when we were up in Edinburgh and the Pope.
I, I looked the man in the eye and I could tell.
I could tell he was, he was just meeting me to steal my shows.
Somehow or other, some sort of slight of hand doing.
Exactly.
Around the table and there it was.
Probably when I went to the toilet, asked, asked my wife for what's Ken working on now, sure ways.
Ah!
He's with her hands.
Yes.
No.
Very good show though.
Yeah.
Nice topic.
So yeah.
I had never really considered doing this to be honest, but yeah.
If you needed to, then this is the way.
My pay slips are now signed.
Are encrypted in Eric Holtz.
So I need to download them and decrypt them in Eric Holtz.
Hmm.
Okay.
I, um, with, with, with Mr. X about PDFs and mentioned Oculus, which he refers to here.
Because my daughter used to send me her papers from university and say, Dad, can you check them?
Can you correct them?
So again, with PDFs and then Oculus, let me put sort of yellow blobs all over the place and little comments alongside.
And which I found was better than, because she was writing them in word.
And I was writing in Libra office and PDF was a good common thing.
So that's why that all came about.
But yeah.
Good.
Okay.
Next one was the Advent deal called Catch Up 6-10 by Daniel.
And it's getting harder.
Getting harder.
No comments on that one.
But there were comments on a comment about other shows and aliases.
About the use of aliases and Bashar C in Linux to better use the command line.
Bye.
A2.
Exactly.
Man, this show calls me some, some sleepless nights.
Why?
Because it has a null character in the text file, which absolutely borks everything.
Oh my god.
The hours I spent trying to figure this out.
So we have eventually ended up putting it as a TXT file attached to the website.
And if you go there, you can see there's a UTFH character like the unknown question mark.
Yes.
Yes.
I saw that the weird thing at some point.
Yes.
Where does it come from?
Because in order to do that, Bash scripting, you need to press Escape then Backspace or something,
which inserts the null character, which goes way back to text terminals that you would change the color and the text terminals.
So the needed something that would say to the terminal itself, hey, this command is for the terminal.
So that's the way Bash does it.
So it triggers it.
And I was getting these warmens warnings.
This is a data file.
Are you sure you want to open the data file?
And no clue.
And it couldn't see anything because it doesn't display here.
It displays on the web page.
But if it's within the JSON file, it doesn't display.
If it's within the text file, it doesn't display.
So then we sent it out to.
We encoded it.
Put it up on the HTML.
HTML skaters.
MySQL didn't show it.
Then it came out on the RSS feed and it was double escaped.
And it was the double escaping that was thrown everything off because the escaping was about five lines further up in the file.
And then it hit the unescaped thing.
And it was gone.
This is an unescaped line here.
And I'm looking.
No, it's not.
It sounds thingy and it looks fine.
But the null character was hidden about 15 lines further up.
Oh my god.
But only I released a new version of our processing tools,
which now checks to see if there's null characters or data in the files.
So that's that.
Because the route that shows go through to get on the roadside and then to turn into comments.
And that sort of stuff is that is that why this is failing?
No, it's a null character isn't supposed to be processed basically.
So then you escape.
We escaped us with.
And it's because of all the escaping we're doing.
We're escaping to put it into my SQL.
Then we're escaping it to be in HTML.
And then we're escaping us to have XML within HTML.
So it's gone through.
And during that process, we.
We.
When the show is uploaded first and posted to the website, we escape it using.
JQ, which is like the Jason.
Yeah, Jason stream editor, which works it to you are all encoding.
Which is great because everything turns to ask you.
And then you post it and then we escape it so that you can store it in the database.
Well, that doesn't matter.
It comes out.
Everything is doing everything correctly, which is the weird thing.
It's just you're not supposed to have no file.
No characters are verboda in XML.
And wrong.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's the XML thing.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Because the weird thing is, and this is a digression maybe we shouldn't be getting into.
But my, the thing that takes the show off the HPR site and puts it on to internet archive.
Handle that fine.
At least I think it did.
It didn't cause any errors and they store all of our shows as XML.
So it didn't seem to cause any any issues.
Maybe I've just guarded against all of that stuff in my script for a very long time.
I don't know.
So.
So what is the long story?
I've forgotten.
Go on.
Sorry.
Better colder than I am, Dave.
Which wouldn't be our cloud.
No.
I don't know about that.
I just just been fighting this thing since 2014.
I seem to.
One for the moment anyway.
I might have a look at that one because.
At the end of the day, I was.
I was.
It was getting so forced to the deadline that I just had to put it in as a.
No, I'm not there enough.
However, that said, the show itself was an excellent show.
Well done.
Yes.
Fascinating idea and lots of interesting things to.
To snoop on and say, ooh, I never thought of that.
Oh, I wouldn't do it that way.
Yeah.
Do you ever take some fancy?
Do it quietly.
Just in the silence of your own, your own home and not to.
I'll make comments.
But like, yeah, DFU command.
It's kind of cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But yes, there's a lot of early ideas there that were worth pondering, I think.
Sorry, guys.
My connection always breaks up.
So for the first thing before, I thought it was a good thing that I could paste.
Everything from my text editor, but it looks like it was.
It was terrible for you in the end.
No, no, no.
I'm actually quite glad that you, a friend of the show, was doing it.
Rather than, you know, four o'clock in the morning and we've been barbed barred up by somebody.
Now we can protect against it.
And at least now, I won't be able to post a show that has these control characters in it.
And then at that point, I'll have a look at Dave's fix and see what he's doing to get it fixed.
So good.
Is it the text editor?
Can I in the way I save something that I can change it?
No, no, no, no.
You've done everything fine.
In fact, everybody's done everything fine.
It's just as now a clash between something somewhere is seeing the escaping of the character.
They're all escaping it.
They're seeing that double escaping has been an issue.
So it's not the escaping of the thing itself.
It's that so it becomes character called 33.
And then that in itself is a nested escape with something else that's around it.
So I might do a show on it at some point.
No.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's pretty much my thing as well.
We seem to have solutions here in our hands.
So we don't really want to poke it and make it break.
Yeah, we have enough of doing that.
I just fixed a two-year-old bug.
Actually, was that you as well?
Yeah, about the broken links on the website.
So I eventually had an hour or the other day if you're in lunch.
And I just went through it and fixed them finally.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, we do have a lot of little nasty niggling bugs to solve.
But when it's knocked off, then that's great.
So all the links on the about page should be now working correctly.
So we have consolidated all the all the documentation basically is on the about page now.
So and everything links to that and the links to it itself.
So great.
That is kind of good.
Redels having connection problems.
But anyway, let's move on.
Here's to the show.
It's horrible.
Host is more on, obviously.
Not messing.
I'm messing.
I'm messing.
No, I do like these shows.
And I will come back to it.
Yes, for sure.
Oh, speaking of horrible shows the next day, fairy lights and powerful pixies.
I don't normally listen to my own shows.
But I had to listen to this one because it was a rant of waffle going on for hours.
It was double the amount of time.
Anyway, who's doing the comments?
It was great, actually.
I enjoyed it.
I had to do some sewing.
I hate doing.
Sometimes buttons fall off things and I was saying them.
I thought, oh, I'll just listen to some.
Oh, there's that one.
And yeah, it covered my sewing thing beautifully.
Well, you're welcome to.
I hate doing sewing.
We stick needles in my fingers.
Got it done.
Thanks, Ken.
So, yeah, shall I do this comment?
I don't know when, whose turn it is, but I'll do the trace.
Yes, you would do it first.
Nicely done.
I love this stream of consciousness teaching approach for podcasts.
I mean to try it.
I may need to try a similar method in the future.
And so I talked to myself all the time already when tinking in my shop.
Hello, man.
The idea of angry pixies is a fun one, which works well enough to communicate the ideas.
They may have been influenced a tiny bit by the mould-wine smile face.
Maybe mine would be fine.
It was just a tea.
Honestly.
It was three hours a day.
You just, you just called.
I'm just getting so tired.
You just called your tea mould-wine.
I know.
So, it says, Trey, maybe mould-wine would have helped me through my college electronics classes,
especially transform analysis.
X-rays mark.
Keep up the awesome work.
And have a happy new year.
Can you imagine my life, Trey, being dropped into four-year transforms,
having no basics under electronics at all?
Absolutely.
It was terrifying.
I had sleepless nights.
I still have sleepless nights.
I really like to show.
Thank you.
That's all the sense.
Sorry, go on.
Sorry, go on.
I'm just saying, this is going to say quite like the end result in your photo.
It looks really cute.
Oh, yeah.
And retail.
You left a comment.
The retail.
Yeah, let's try it.
Okay.
My comment.
You said you recorded it with Audacity.
It was my understanding.
So, Audacity is overkill.
Next time, give it a try or better play with it now.
Because solo cost has to combine command.
What happens when you run this command is...
Well, run when all the segments are recorded.
It does the following.
It does combine the segments.
It applies a noise reduction filter.
And it truncates silence.
And I think you said you would have to cut out silence, silent sections or something like that.
Yeah, that's true.
And this is from...
A solo cast is from Norrist, who is one of our hosts.
And just in case you didn't think that I used that, I did.
The episodes, my attempt to record that number 37 right through to 42 were done with solo cast.
So, it's not...
Believe me, the problem with the show was not the truncates silence of the noise reduction.
It is getting the information out there without going down the rabbit hole.
But I'm glad you got your buttons in Dave.
That's the main thing.
The thing when I left the command, I just see that it combined the segments.
And then I actually had another line for applied a noise reduction filter.
Would it ignore a tap separation?
The comments, yeah, are just comments.
The command is text.
The only thing we do is comfort.
If it's a link, we make it a link.
And if there's breaks or paragraph marks, we put them in as new lines.
All right.
And that's deliberate.
We don't want people having too much control over what sort of marketing thread they can put into our comments.
So, the next day, Alabama to Florida.
And Ahuka managed to avoid anything annoying because nobody's left a comment.
And I've said before, if you're following this series,
you should also take a few minutes just to check the flicker images that are associated with it.
I actually, I was like, listen to this one.
There was a show earlier on that was enormous.
Anyway, I was listening to this as I was getting ready for this recording.
And I was listening, I don't, I normally run these things on my phone.
I was actually sitting at the desk.
And I was following through each day from the flicker links.
And I strongly recommend you do that if you've got the time because it's really good.
They fit together nicely, you know, with who's saying in the talk and the pictures and stuff, you really get.
I certainly found it got a really deeper insight into what he was doing and his problems and the good bits and all that sort of stuff.
Ali is excellent at taking photos of the information boards as well.
So you can get these.
You can read the information boards, which is always cool because I never,
you know, all the family always just wants to move on and I never have time to read it.
So I end up doing that myself.
I have children who do that as well.
So yeah, that's often me.
And I'll be showing you my pictures.
Well, it's a sign about the thing we saw.
It's a thing.
Ah, that's really good.
That Donald should tell him, but that creepy weirdo with the beard and beret is following them around still.
Actually, he looks so relaxed.
He looks very relaxed.
I love him.
He's a new general there.
So lovely to see.
Okay, that was it.
And we have additional comments, but we also have the comment show that we skipped over.
Why didn't we have additional comments?
Where did the lion subscribe?
Oh, so let's see.
Sorry.
So there are five comments from four previous shows.
Let's do those.
Shall we?
Yep.
I'll do one.
Sok said, this is on programming 101 basics.
This is episode 262.
Wow, that's, that's way back.
Neil is free.
Said, thank you.
Just to say thank you for choosing Python for the programming 101's mini series.
It is the language I have most experience with.
And that is still less than enough to apply to real world applications questions.
Do you know how large such a program would be that could you do a show to explain how to rise a pi to get your computer to randomly select an image from a folder and set it as the desktop wallpaper each day?
So good, good question there.
Suggesting for a show.
I'll do the next one.
It's on the show Thunderbird inbox filtering from Scotty and it's from Frank who says why unsubscribe.
I don't know how it is in the US, but in Europe a newsletter by law needs to have a clear way to of unsubscribing by providing a link somewhere.
Why unsubscribe?
For the environment, it's dirt cheap to spam emails around, but the amount adds up in electricity and traffic.
Number two, for your own privacy.
Two A, if you use a commercial mail provider that scans your mails, and each time you get one of these, it's scanned in the profile on you grows.
Two B, in case the send of the newsletters have a hacked chances it will be at a certain point.
It will be at a certain point and your address will leak to the crackers.
Two C, the send has your address and can probably and probably will trade it for money.
In an ideal world we all like to think that hope dies last.
They delete your address when you unsubscribe.
If not, it's probably a violation of GDPR.
That was one of the ones that was covered on Scotty's show for 012.
So good. Carry on.
Can you read the next one?
Scotty answered.
To why unsubscribe, thank you for the comment.
First, we also have laws, policies surrounding commercial emails subscription.
Then it comes.
Act compliance guide for business from the government.
Two A, the next point.
Privacy is no longer an option with commercial mail providers.
And two B, encryption is currently the best solution for anyone wishing for privacy.
Two C, sorry.
Carry on. I agree with two B, yes.
And to see, rather my email address is leaked or sold, the nations to Thunderbird provide some peace of mind.
And to the third point, there's no third point above.
I'm certain many US companies violate the GDPR and US laws regularly.
I agree.
I will only unsubscribe from companies that are, that I'm really having to deal with.
Yeah, within Europe, because you know, if they're service providers and like telephone companies or dual angle or places like that, I'll unsubscribe.
But I also take a screenshot and I also have a unique email address for each of them.
But for mail list that come in via admin at hacker public radio, for example, we get all sorts of crap in there.
And you just delete it because there's no point.
So, yeah, a bit of both.
But personally, I think, while I think both of the guys are right on subscribing, yeah, reputable companies that are worried about the GDPR will remove your, you should unsubscribe from those, but people who are doing spam, they don't give you.
They don't care.
Sure thing.
Anyway, Dave Morris had a show called Be careful when feeding data into loops.
And Ken Fallon says using this now in, yep, not 12 hours.
After recording the community news show, I've run into bash counter outside loop problem. Thanks, Dave.
So, I'll do the last one, which is a show.
Using Open Source OCR to digitize my mum's book.
And it's a deltory replying to an early comment.
Thanks, he says.
I appreciate that feedback and good luck with your endeavors.
And let's just go through four show 4012.
Were there any comments on that?
Yes, there were.
Let me see.
And the show was commenting.
So we covered the one about white unsubscribe.
Then he, some guy in the internet in his show, response show also covered the topic show is very opinionated and also covered day.
That was on the sex torsion one and the comment about poor quality also on the sex torsion one.
And Rita, can you do the hp on listener and I'll do myself.
Sorry, I'm just writing.
No.
Why are we paying you the big books?
Do you have any idea how much effort I went to just to get euros converted into cis francs?
Dude, mom, you need to op your game here.
Where are we?
We're at cover number one on show.
Oh, yeah, sorry, show 4012.
I'll send you the link in the thing.
If you could do comment number one on that one, because we skipped over us because comments are comments.
So this is by an hpr listener.
Just when the disappointment couldn't get worse, it did.
So instead of taking on board and learning from previous errors, Scotty decides to mock and deride anyone who points them out.
No, this is not output from a prompt.
That was an unnecessary comment.
Reading comments in a mocking tone and then applying voice effects to further the insult.
Then repeating the insulting.
Admonishments.
Very good.
Very good.
Thanks to strangers to just don't do that.
For Ken.
So long as Scotty's self-righteous and ignorant opinions are published on hpr unchecked.
I will be unsubscribing advice others do the same.
I'm really surprised about so much hate.
Well, that's my personal comment.
Yeah, that's allowed.
I respond going, I am unable to comply as in relation to the so long blah blah blah are published on hpr unchecked.
I respond.
We do not fast edit, moderate or in any way censor your audio use of mates.
We trust you to do that.
And that's a link to the about page with a hashtag now once you want to score moderated, which actually works now.
If you are not happy with this decision or feel that it should be changed, please bring this up to the topic as a policy change and hpr mailing list link to the about page hashtag mailing list link, which also now works.
What I would like to add to the one before where Scotty adds some stuff into the into the sound of his messages when he lets the computer speak and so on.
I think this is also kind of a of an art of how you make production.
What you put into it.
That's how he does all his other shows.
So I don't get the comment.
I think somebody needs to take a chill pill, relax, sit back.
That's how when some guy in the internet is recording issues, he does sound effects to say he's quoting something.
So whenever in his unknown news episodes, he reads those things like that.
So that you as a listener know it's not his opinions.
It's something somebody else has written.
So I think the commenter here is taking it very personal.
And in actual fact, it's not it's just the way some guy in the internet produces his shows, which by the way, hugely well produced.
Far too much effort for likes to be you, but there you go.
He seems to be able to produce the shows a more power tool.
So the final comment.
HPR listener again.
Referring to, I am unable to comply the previous comment.
Ken, you are of course correct to point out HPR's hands off editorial policy.
And I apologize for not being more specific.
HPR policy is fine and no change whatsoever there is implied or suggested.
By unchecked, I should have specified by Scotty himself rather than by HPR staff.
The only is here is on Scotty to acknowledge the unnecessary insult and thoughtlessness of his comments.
And in his response to comment and to apologize for and correct them publicly.
No, don't think he needs to do that.
Your thoughts?
No, me neither.
No, me neither.
I never took it personal to, well, he just said in the beginning, don't do it.
And he never said, don't do it in the way that you get caught, caught however.
But he never said, I didn't fail any aggressive stuff in it.
So people are that much offended by it.
On the other hand, I thought it interesting to read through the 10 comments.
Yeah, that's true.
Didn't really quickly want to have 10 comments because, you know, it's just life.
Preferred have shows, you know, somebody that responded with a show that on the other hand would have been a show we could have listened, but we didn't get a show.
Oh, we got those comments.
Which are fine.
The irony is the person who submitted this will never hear it because they've unsubscribed.
So alas, we lost a listener.
And a few moments of silence is probably going to be truncated out.
So we only have three.
I'm actually worried about this episode.
Sorry for putting it this episode is going to get shit loads of comments about how I
edged this incorrectly or whatever.
And I do take all the comments personally.
Sorry, go on.
I'm going to shut up now.
You may speak.
Shall we just go to the mail?
This stuff on the mailing list.
There's only a couple of mail messages there.
Due to this month's show, suddenly in comments.
And the last one show, yeah, mailing list discussions.
Let's have a look.
I changed the HBUR news recording schedule.
Was that anything important, Dave?
I had forgotten about that to me.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
That was because last month we changed our date.
We'd sent out the mail as usual.
And then we had to change it because of personal reasons.
And I just put the message out to say if you were hoping to join us,
then you couldn't cause we weren't doing that.
Just thinking we're late.
Just trying to be polite about these things because, you know, that's what I feel I should do.
That's very good.
One of my children is in care now.
So some weekends we can go up and some weekends we can't.
So it's not always 100% clear when we can and when we can't.
So sometimes the recording of the HBUR shows are affected by that.
So apologies for that.
So what else did we have in the mail list?
Oh, yeah, I'll do this one.
Operator.
And I'm going to do it with a ridiculous voice.
So that I can't be accused of using voice.
So I am sick of companies that do not answer the phone.
They call you back from a random number.
And nobody answers the phone anymore.
And this problem has to be fixed.
Is there anything I can do?
I, Excel Mishmark, only cell phones are not an effective form of communication for your customers.
There needs to be some other way.
I'm not answering 9,000 spam calls a day for four weeks just to find out results of health or PI.
Don't call us.
We'll call you.
Excel Mishmarks.
Problem solved.
Set up a TTY server.
Dear hospital administrator.
I am writing to request that.
Name of hospital provides effective communication methods for death and heart of hearing patients.
As legally required to under the American Disabilities Act.
Did I?
Someone like a trance.
Oh my god.
How did I get truncated?
Don't think it did.
It didn't wrap this particular view.
It doesn't wrap messages like stuff like thunderbird does.
I was just puzzling over that.
Hey, I'll I didn't the only thing I can think of this all this is that.
Is there anything I can do?
Only I can think of to do a set up a TTS to SMS server and formally request the companies use TTY to contact them and myself.
Is that an idea?
Cell phones are not an effective form of communication, etc.
And then there will be dear hospital administrator required to American Disabilities Act.
Currently, your name of hospital relies primarily on telephone communications, which is not accessible for those who are deaf, heart of hearing loss.
I request the removal of the inaccessible voice system that name of hospital instead provide TTY text telephone as an alternative communication method.
As you know, the MDA mandates that hospitals and medical facilities not provide adequate most provide adequate auxiliary aids.
And services where necessary to ensure effective communications with deaf and heart of hearing patients.
The Department of Justice has specified that TTY's fall under the required auxiliary aids.
I ask name of hospital to install TTY equipment in patient rooms, nursing stations, registration desks and other key locations.
Please ensure staff are properly trained on TTY usage as it gets and then communicate with deaf and heart of hearing patients.
Clear?
What is that?
I mean, is it just spam?
No, it would be if it wasn't coming from operator.
But we'll continue on.
Clear sign, you should also indicate the availability of TTY's providing effective patient communication.
It is not only a legal obligation, but also a critical or ensuring equal access to medical care and services.
I welcome the opportunity to discuss this further and assist name of hospital in implementing these communication accommodations.
Please contact me at your area's convenience sincerely yours.
Do you want to read the next comment and the law will become clear?
Do it's not directed to?
The person who wants to do it.
Okay.
Do we save?
I've got...
No, no, don't do it.
So I've opened Thunderbird and looking at it here where it wraps properly so I don't have to scroll sideways.
Yeah, it's true.
That works well.
Anyway, it's John Doe has John Doe locksmith who has replied.
Says, odd place to find this message.
Hey, hack is going to hack.
I think this is likely to be implemented by calling the already overwork TTY relay operators and putting a greater strain on the wait time of the DHH community.
Because I understand it hospitals at least calling from an unknown number has to do with not disclosing your personal information to anyone, but the patient without permission.
Other companies frankly, I think it's just a late stage capitalism with a mega rich realizing they don't need to staff a phone number to keep the plebians from sauntering over to extract justice on their own terms.
So that basically covers the answer to your question.
It's not spam because it came from operator and he is getting annoyed by those things and things that TTY server would work.
However, as John Doe locksmith says, yeah.
And in the real world, they ain't got to do that.
I worked for an organization which insisted if you made a phone call out from your office number, which was a...
It could be accessed directly through the exchange.
It would never reveal your number on the outgoing direction, which meant that people who had blocks on their phones that said if this number is a generic one.
I think it could detect that this was being done and wouldn't accept the calls.
So if you wanted to call somebody from your office number, it couldn't do it because of all this governance.
But there was a way you could tell the exchange, look, just reveal the blasted thing and stop being so stupid.
But yeah, it's a whole horrible mess because of phones, the way phone systems have evolved and stuff.
I'm sorry if you just move us all.
Absolutely. With VoIP, you can do what the hell you want with it.
Our righty Dave and Rito are around the other business.
I'm now on an entirely different monitor and a different screen, different universe.
I don't know who I am.
Who the hell am I?
Yes, we've got AOB and we had a couple of developments.
I couldn't think of much to write here and I forgot to ask you, Ken.
But the developers of last month, we had some shows where the audio didn't have their ID3 or their audio tags,
or if you call things an ID3 tags, serve the same purpose.
And we fixed them with a little bit of pain, but we did it.
And we've also made some enhancements to the comment system, as long as you can, I think.
Yeah, I was hugely overdue.
It works, but it's a single point failure and I am it.
Mostly the single point failure, so we really need to get that sorted.
Well, your thing is fine.
To do the comment system, most people won't even see it.
It's just you and I.
We can most of the comments are just okay, okay, okay, approve, approve.
The reason we approve all comments is because we were absolutely bombarded with spam.
And there are still, if you go back and look hidden away, a few spam messages, but as we find them, we clearer them out.
Yeah, yeah.
But when we changed over to the current comment system, we didn't really have resources to run software to manage the comment system.
In terms of accept them, process them, approve them and stuff.
We didn't feel that we had enough resources, server resources to do it.
So I took on the task of effectively accepting the comments to my desktop because I'm here all the time, mostly.
And dealing with them there and then sending them on, we're actually just writing them into the database over a link.
But that's great.
It's made us, we've survived that way for a number of years, but it's not a good long-term solution.
So it's time to fix it.
Yeah, but we, if, for example, we ever need to edit a comment or form a message or something and put add links, we still need to use your system.
So that's not going away.
It's just, if it's a quick, you know, thanks for the show.
I can hit approve on my phone, which I can't because there's IP addresses, links, but at least I can read the comments without having to open the attached JSON file.
This doesn't affect anybody except you and me, and it's just, you know, bugging me for the years.
That's fine, it's fine.
But sometimes the way we solve these things is not the ideal way, but it's the way that it gets us to an answer fairly quickly, you know.
Exactly.
It's often the way.
And there's actually nothing bad about that.
I've in my engineering career, I've often implemented any solution because that gives you an experience on, you know, it's a starting point.
Right.
I don't know where to start.
I'll do something.
You do that, something, and then you go, well, how can I improve that?
Should I scrap it if I were to do it again?
What would I do?
It gives you a point of learning.
Yeah.
I've been doing that all my IT life because I worked for university there, and I'm much money and they were refused to give you the money to solve it properly until you sold it improperly.
And they said, what is that PC doing in the corner there?
What does that do?
And you say, oh, that solves the problem.
You wouldn't let us buy something to solve.
Oh, well, maybe we can make some money available to you then.
Anyway, that wasn't really around.
It was just a, just an anecdote.
So last thing in the list is to thank all 58 HBR contributors in 2023.
And what we did last time we did this, we're trying to do it every year.
I think we have.
It's to go through the list in alphabetical order and take turns to read each of the blocks.
I think I've arranged that there's blocks of eight, if I can count probably.
So shall I start?
Please do, yeah.
So thanks for contributions from or two.
Okay.
Andrew Conway, Archer 72.
Bookworm.
Brian Inohio.
Celeste.
Claudio Miranda.
And Clinton Roy.
Daniel Pearson's.
Dave Morris.
David Train.
Christianson.
David Whitman.
Deep Geek.
Delta Ray.
D and T.
And.
And Stilio.
Rita, you want to do one?
I'll do the next one then.
Folky.
Fred Black.
Gem log.
Hypernike.
Hobbs.
Honky McGoo.
Hi, honky.
Hopper MCS.
HBR volunteers.
They may be our volunteers have done a lot of work.
They're great.
Yeah.
I'm talking to honky in the background.
Actually, about there.
Yeah.
I see them in the chat.
So then the next one is HBR audio book club.
John Colp.
J.W.P.
Keith Murray.
Ken Fallon.
You look like two.
Nightwise.
And Lee.
Lurking Pryon.
Mekiotronic.
Mike Ray.
Minix.
Mr. Young.
Mr. X.
Noodles.
And Norst.
The next one.
One of Spoon's operator.
Paul Quirk.
Rato.
Rato.
Ron.
Rionuke.
Screw type.
Shane Shannon.
Some guy on the internet.
Josh A.F.
Starship Tux.
Steve Sainer.
Taisara.
Toujette.
Trey Trickster.
And finally, Tula.
Zen Flutter 2.
Super D-Duber.
Does honky want to say anything?
Oh, I'm not really.
I've been here.
How are you doing?
Good.
How are you?
Sorry.
I'm going to send this email now that I'm sending to you.
Great.
Thanks.
Quick.
Save your reading.
What is the stream is up?
The etherpad for the New Year show of 2024.
Has Holgo VBCDEF done there?
What's that about?
I think that's more for the guys who are doing the show note editing.
So I'd have to get back to Scotty and.
Lovecraft.
It's because so this year we're not going to do the announcing every.
Every new year as it comes up just because I feel like it kind of cuts into some of the conversation.
So at the very least it's it's not going to be in the show notes area.
I'm not sure what the ABC you know let me pull it up.
That is fantastic.
That's a good idea.
Yeah.
Good idea.
Because that drove me nuts every year.
And it didn't really help at all because no one knew exactly where they were in the New Year's
to put it in the right spots for the show notes anyways.
So the show notes kind of that.
I'm going.
I will go.
Exactly.
Happy New Year.
Somewhere.
Some random island somewhere.
Right.
Exactly.
Trying to go element.
Yeah.
Anyways.
And I would.
I don't know under this.
Is there also any human show by the way?
It's just going up.
We'll tell you what people.
This is the community news show so this is going to keep people out.
Yeah.
And they're also working on trying to get the links look nicer for Dave so.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Yep.
And I'll run the whisper transformation on the recording as well.
Which which helped I think last year with the show notes.
Thank you. No problem. I'll go set some of that up
Probably better do that tonight because tomorrow it starts tomorrow, isn't it? Yeah
Took about a second ago. I went oh, yeah, that's tomorrow morning
Creep downstairs for meant no one's come over just yet. So I'll just turn it on make sure it actually works
I tested it earlier. I had a bunch of old
Linux like cast just kind of on a repeat that I had the VLC playing
So basically any audio that goes through this laptop is supposed to going out into
Through ice cast so
It also you're working right now. It should be good like tested a second ago that the length that I gave you should come up with us talking right now
So ice cast is up, but it's not it's not recording anything yet. So I'll just set up the recording first thing tomorrow morning
Yeah, good
Bapapapapapapapapapapapkaparrr
Are you down the sunken magoo?
So the hunk him a pope account is the one that's gonna be doing the
David
Life stream. It's gonna be me in a live stream unless. I come on through a different sauce, which I may at some point
All right
Che題 dance moral for another exciting episode of
acker
Radio! Radio!
You're fired!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released
under Creative Commons' Attribution 4.0 International License.
