Episode: 4384
Title: HPR4384: Browser and dedicated apps on the mobile phone
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4384/hpr4384.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:02:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4384 for Thursday the 22nd of May 2025.
Today's show is entitled Browser and Dedicated Apps on the Mobile Phone.
It is hosted by Henry Cameron and is about two minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, the traditional browser can reduce the number of dedicated apps on the
Smart Mobile Phone.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
My name is Henley Kamlin and I'm your host today.
Recently I had a discussion on Mustodon about mobile phone applications.
The other person stated the web belongs to web browsers.
I agreed to it as a general good approach.
Some dedicated apps cannot be substituted with the browser, but some can.
I do not have so many apps myself, but anyway this statement got me to review a couple of my apps
how they work in the Firefox browser.
And actually I could delete three apps and all functions I needed from them
can be managed from Firefox.
Beside traditional bookmarks those pages can be pinned to the Firefox Start page
or placed like a web app on the screen so they look like an ordinary mobile phone app.
Using the Firefox browser makes it easier to control the privacy.
In addition to what is built into Firefox, I currently also have the two extensions
privacy badger and u-block origin in my Firefox browser.
Brief side privacy and in general to be somewhat more in control,
this approach also reduces a number of apps to keep updated and reduce storage need.
Sometimes apps are necessary or otherwise beneficial,
but I think the traditional browser should not be forgotten also on the smart mobile phone.
Thank you for listening, take care and goodbye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
