Episode: 4269
Title: HPR4269: What is on My Podcast Player 2024, Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4269/hpr4269.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:19:34

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4269 for Thursday the 12th of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled, What is on My Podcast Player 2024 Part 2.
It is part of the series podcast recommendations.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, this is an update on the podcasts Ahukah listens to.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
This is headed for the Reserve Q. That means that if you are listening to this, Hacker
Public Radio needs shows and it means you should be recording a show.
So please do so and I am going to show you how easy this is.
All I did is I went to my G-Potter and exported an OPML file of all of my podcasts and printed
it out and I am just sitting here going through them one at a time and that is how easy it
can be.
You know, it doesn't have to be a major production.
So this is more of my current podcasts and this is as of 2004 as I am recording this
because things change and you know, I have done these kinds of things before but it is
a different list of podcasts every time because I get older, my interests change.
So with that said, I am going to start running through these and it is in kind of a semi-random
order because that is the way the OPML file came out and I just printed it.
You know, I didn't do a whole lot of organization on this.
So the first podcast I am going to mention, Dr. Who the Memory Cheats, now that may sound
like kind of an odd title but it comes from one of the people behind Dr. Who was saying
that you know, when people think back to older shows and remember them fondly that the
memory tends to cheat and they remember things differently from how they were and sometimes
make unfair judgments on that basis.
So this is just, you know, Dr. Who podcasts are pretty similar, the difference is in how
well they are done.
This is a good one.
Then another Dr. Who one, this is called the 20 megabyte podcast and it is not limited
to 20 megabytes anymore, apparently when they started this podcast, Apple's iTunes would
only allow a file to be 20 megabytes.
That is the story I heard.
I don't use iTunes for getting my podcast so it never occurred to me one way or the
other but they wanted to be able, people to be able to download this through iTunes.
So they limited it.
Now apparently Apple has come into the 21st century and there is not that limitation anymore.
This is one of the less professional ones.
It might be amusing or not depending on the case, the fellow who is primarily behind this
involves his daughters who are not adults.
So it can be a variable kind of a thing.
Next, the Fab4 free for all.
Fab4 is of course a term used to talk about the Beatles and so this is a podcast.
It's three guys in New York who are all Beatles fans and they periodically put out a podcast.
It used to be a lot more regular but like many of us as life goes on sometimes it's
harder to find time so I'd say they're more sporadic at this point than regular.
But you know for some people sporadic is a good thing.
You might not have time to listen to a whole lot of stuff from everyone every week.
And there's another one called Something About the Beatles and that is hosted by a fellow
named Robert Rodriguez who is a Beatles scholar, has written books, things like that.
And typically the shows are interviews with writers who maybe have looked in some aspect
of the Beatles and written a book about it.
We'll get them on the show and say okay, tell me about this.
Like recently Ken Wormack did a whole book about Mal Evans who is the sort of the associate
of the Beatles.
So he was on the show or there are people that specialize in the Beatles movies and talk
about all the things that went into those.
Now if you're not a Beatles fan it wouldn't be of the least bit of interest to you.
But Rodriguez is pretty regular about his.
So you can usually expect one every week or two out of him.
Another Doctor Who one, the Doctor's Companion called Doctor Who the Long Way Round.
There's only some as you can say about Doctor Who Podcast.
I enjoy it but it doesn't really stand out I suppose.
The next one I want to mention is called Welcome to Night Vale.
This is a fairly interesting and different kind of ongoing audio drama.
It's set in a fictitious town of Night Vale which is somewhere in the desert southwest.
Arizona and Mexico I don't know.
I don't recall that they've ever said specifically.
But it's a very bizarre town.
So this is definitely fantasy.
Kind of hard to describe.
The library is full of librarians who are bloodthirsty monsters.
The town council is made up of creatures from another dimension and everyone worships
a glow cloud and so on.
It's very surreal but I like it and I know a lot of people who do.
It's worth checking out.
Of course I'm going to have links to all of these things in the show notes so if anything
catches your attention you go to the show notes you can find out where to go.
The next one I want to mention is something called No Guitar is Safe.
This is a show where a fellow named Jude Gold who I believe was a staff writer for Guitar
Player magazine.
Maybe he still is.
I'm never entirely clear about all of that.
But what the series is is he goes around interviewing guitar players and you know they play things
on the show.
Maybe just a riff or two to illustrate a point or maybe they'll both pull out guitars
into a short jam.
So if you're into guitar really good show.
Now the next one I want to mention is Healthcare Triage live show.
Now Healthcare Triage is a series by Dr. Aaron Carroll who is a researcher.
He's on the faculty at Indiana University columnist for the New York Times.
So he's an interesting fellow and the idea of this show is they want to take a topic.
It might be healthcare policy, something going on in medical research and or you know
just things about questions people have about healthcare.
And generally he is interviewing someone who is doing research.
So some doctor is researching a specific aspect of cancer and it's cutting edge research
and let's find out what's going on and so you know 20 minutes of interview.
So if you want to keep up and if you've listened to some of the shows I've done on hacker
public radio you know that healthcare and healthcare policy is an interest of mine and
has been for some time.
Now the next one Dr. Who the Broken C series.
Now this one is it's not people talking about Dr. Who so much as it is kind of fan fiction
okay audio drama that involves the doctor but it's a whole new set of adventures.
And you know fresh writers and stuff like that.
So it's got a fully dramatized audio series and it's based on the BBC television show.
Now the next one I want to mention is called Revolutions and this is a podcast that was
done by Mike Duncan.
He's actually wrapped it up by now but I think it's still worth listening to so I want to
include it here and I've left it in my podcast feed because I want because I want to know
when he does something next.
I first found Mike Duncan he did a podcast called The History of Rome and history podcasters
you know consider that one of the top ones and when he finished with the history of
Rome he started looking at various revolutions and he starts with basically the Civil War
in England which he considers a revolution revolution by the Puritans against the monarchy
and goes through the American revolution, the Haitian revolution, the French revolution,
Mexican revolution you know and so on and finally he gets to the Russian revolution which
takes more time than any of them and then he wrapped it up after that.
Now I've heard that he's planning to come back with something new.
I don't quite know what one of the last things I heard is that he was going to hook up
with another historian and do a podcast where the two of them discussed current history
books or something I'm not entirely clear I haven't heard anything but I leave it in
my feed so that I get a notification but I thought it was really good stuff if you're
into history.
This one is Sherlock Holmes Trifles.
Now this is the same couple of guys that do a hear of Sherlock everywhere which we had
previously mentioned you know the I hear Sherlock everywhere as a long interview program
twice a month so the first and the 15th basically.
Holmes is a short podcast once a week and what it is is just looking at the odd minutia.
How many times did Holmes mention railway timetables you know well they go through the stories
all the time he did that you know how many times were were vegetables mentioned or some
absurd thing so it's all trifles but there is a quote from Sherlock Holmes where he says
there's nothing as important as trifles so that's where they get the name and all that
from and then I want to mention something called Things We Said Today which is a Beatles podcast
with featuring Alan Cosen Ken Michaels and Darren DeVivo.
Things We Said Today is a title of a Beatles song so that's where they get that from.
Now this is more or less weekly depending on how busy people are.
Alan Cosen for instance this co-author of a book that I read
called the McCartney Legacy that focused on Paul McCartney as a solo artist.
Ken Michaels has a number of radio programs and podcasts and Darren DeVivo is a radio
disc jockey so that's what that one is about and I'm going to wrap up with Dan Carlin again.
This one is called Hardcore History Addendum. Now the Hardcore History is basically he takes a topic
and he dives into it you know and it might be four or five episodes and the individual episodes
like I say I've seen him do four hour episodes. Addendum is basically just little bits of
things and you know it might be 45 minutes but it's nothing as major as Hardcore History is
so if it didn't fit in the Hardcore History feed he puts it into addendum so interviews, musings,
extra material, stuff like that. And so with that I think I'm going to conclude this particular
episode and as always I'm going to encourage everyone to support free software. Bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show
was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net. On this
otherwise stated today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
