Episode: 4036
Title: HPR4036: The Tildeverse
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4036/hpr4036.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:53:08

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,036 from Monday the 22nd of January 2024.
Today's show is entitled The Tiltiverse.
It is the 20th show of Claudio Miranda and is about 4 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Claudio introduces HPR listeners to the Tiltiverse.
Hey Hacker Public Radio listeners, this is Claudio and I wanted to talk to you today
about the Tiltiverse.
Now what is the Tiltiverse you're asking?
Well, if you're familiar with SDF and I know it's been brought up on a couple of episodes
here on Hacker Public Radio, SDF is a public access-access-unix system where you can create
your own account and if you want you can send a donation, a small donation to be validated
and they also have different tiers of access such as ARPA, meta-ARPA and whatnot.
But they aren't the only game in town.
There's actually a bunch of other what they call PubMixes and you can find the list of
them over on a website called tilldiverse.org and the reason why it's called Tiltiverse
I think is pretty obvious if you're a Linux or a Unix or a BSD user, TILDA.
TILDA is the shortcut for your home directory.
So if you head on over to tilldiverse.org and I'll put all these links in the show notes,
you can find out what they are and I'm going to read just a little bit off the top of
the page.
It says, we're a loose association of like-minded TILDA communities.
If you're interested in learning about Nix with an asterisk which is to denote all the
different Unix like operating systems like Linux, Unix itself, BSD and whatnot.
Come check out our rememberTILDAs and sign up.
Now the memberTILDAs, they have all the links there.
They're basically the list of different TILDA servers that are out there.
As a matter of fact, I am on TILDA.institute and that one runs OpenBSD and there are a bunch
of other ones that are running different different distributions of Linux.
There's even one, if I'm not mistaken, running on Windows.
So if you head on over to tilldiverse.org, you can find out more and even sign up to one
of these public servers.
Even TextOplano is there, TextOplano.xyz, that is more tailored to Spanish speakers.
I had even been thinking about doing an episode on that but I don't know, I'm still kind
of thinking.
I'm still weighing my options on that one.
But yeah, you can check that out and each of those sites has instructions on how you
can sign up.
Going down further, the TILDAverse.org page, there's also different services.
So they have various Macedon servers, instances out there.
There's also the TILDA.chat, which is the RSC server for the TILDAverse and various
other services.
So be sure to head on over and take a look.
So I think that's pretty much it.
I just wanted to make everybody aware of the TILDAverse itself.
It's kind of almost like a web ring if you think about it.
I don't know.
If any of you remember web rings, but it's like a web ring but for public access to
Unix servers.
So anyway, just thought I'd throw that in there.
So one other thing I want to mention, we are really, really low on shows and it would
be great if you can record an episode on anything that you think would interest the listeners
of Hacker Public Radio and be sure to upload it.
Does it have to be perfect, but remember, we want quality of content and not necessarily
does it have to be quality of audio.
You can record it on your phone so long it's something of interest to all of us as hackers.
Anyway, I'm going to leave it here.
Thanks for listening.
Have a good one.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
Posting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
