Episode: 4045
Title: HPR4045: My Macbook Pro 15" 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4045/hpr4045.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:58:26

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,045 for Friday 2 February 2024.
Today's show is entitled, My MacBook Pro 15 2015.
It is the 20th show of Swift 110 and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is I discuss the specs and why I love this machine so much.
Hello, this is Swift 110.
It comes in my attention that HPR could really use some recordings and I definitely don't
want you guys to run out of things to have one here.
So yeah, I'm gonna help out and tell you guys about my amazing 15 inch 2015 MacBook Pro.
I was given this MacBook Pro as a gift and I really, really appreciate it.
Why do I appreciate this machine?
I appreciate it because it helps me to take my computing to the next level.
I use it every day and I don't have to worry about overheating and stopping like I do
with my T420 and I hope soon to be able to prepare that T420 shortly to get in better
working condition.
Currently, I use it as a desktop at home but I'm glad I don't have to worry about that
with my MacBook Pro.
Anything else that I appreciate about having is that prior to this MacBook Pro, I had
a MacBook from 2010.
Upgraded it as much as I could but I'm still dealing with the limitations of its core
2 Duo processor inside.
So having a much updated machine, my goodness is something that I truly appreciate.
I appreciate it so much like I said, I use it after the day.
It goes with me where I go and so there's something to think about when it comes to a machine
because right now it's 2024 and I'm able to use a machine from 2015 with no problem
and that's absolutely amazing.
Now let's get into the specs of this particular machine because the specs are pretty dark
on these, you know, definitely no sounds the best that I actually have at all.
So I am definitely rocking an I-7 47-HQ is the processor, the CPU that's in here, 2.20
gigahertz until I-risk Pro GPU and is rocking 16 gigs at home.
While the actual laptop itself weighs a little more than 4.5 pounds and so I've got a
little weight to it but I feel like the use I get out of it makes it worth the weight.
Haha, you see what I did there.
Makes it worth the weight.
Alright, so nice specs, decent battery life, I might even put a new battery in here.
I'm happy with this performance, the temperature can go up a little more but it is tolerant,
you know, long as nothing's out landish.
It generally stays a decent case.
The fans come on, I have a program on here actually called Max on fan, the support room,
what is it called?
Max fan control, there you go.
I'm happy to set it to be especially careful about the amount, about monitoring and what
not.
And so it's really nice to use now.
The Apple ecosystem is a very addictive ecosystem because they put so many things together,
they integrate very well into one another.
One of those things being your notes, your notes app, that's great to have because you
can transfer that between any of your devices, I've personally added all the notes on my
iPad, for example, onto my MacBook Pro, and I've added my voice recordings from the iPad
also to this particular laptop and that's pretty cool.
I'm happy to be able to also use some familiar open source programs, like the library office,
got that on here, VLC media player, and a few others.
And so it makes me feel quite at home and make use of the strength of the Apple ecosystem
as well.
I'm actually going to be trying to do something similar with Linux as much as I can
once I get my framework that'll truly be the day when I get that wonderful machine.
We'll see how things play out as to when or if that actually happens.
I got to see what's happening with this 14th generation CPU.
If I want to wait until then or if I'll get a 13th generation 8, that's to be seen within
the rooms of time, of course.
Something else I really like about this particular laptop is the screen.
When you come from a screen, that is what in the world is the screen that came on that
T420.
I think it's like a 16 something, that's 1200, not bad, but not the best either.
But now with these hyped up screens, you know, that's one thing I've noticed about
the Apple machines, their screens are top notch, the audio quality is top notch.
I do like the keyboard, but there is a couple of things that don't like about the machine.
One of the things I don't like about the machine is that they're very sensitive and like
I spilled a little bit of water in the keyboard of my MacBook from 2010.
And ever since then, it's been wonky with the power, it's been the keyboard doesn't work
properly and I have to use an external to get any use out of it.
The laptop has been wonky ever since.
And so I try to keep liquids away from this MacBook Pro because I don't want the same
thing that happened to this beloved machine.
Something else I don't like is the way things are on the inside.
I wanted to just get to the speakers and take a look at them because mine was giving
me static.
It was really annoying like a buzz coming out of here.
I don't like that.
And so I opened it up, I see the battery, it would not, and I saw it was multiple steps
to get to just the speakers and it looked like I had to disassemble the whole thing just
to get to the speakers.
And I fanned of that and tell them you don't want me to get inside and take a look around
and upgrade things and fix things.
And some of those I don't like is when the RAM is soldered to the motherboard somehow.
I want to be able to change out RAM if I want to.
In this case, I'd be curious if he wasn't soldered would I be able to put 32 gigs of
RAM in here.
I don't know this yet.
And I don't take that as a hating one Apple in general.
I'm going to do that in another time.
But it's just a very polite criticism of something that will make me enjoy the machine
even more.
On the type I just want more control of something that I own.
This is my laptop, nobody else is getting it.
And so I want to be able to do with it what I need to do in order to make it work better.
I definitely want to keep this up and running as my daily machine at the very least until
I get a new framework, you know.
So that's up into a keeping consideration, fit that for sure.
I really, really enjoyed.
And that's the thing about having devices that are also in the Apple ecosystem the way
they mesh together.
I think it's incredible.
In the fact that I got this thing for free, that's sweet as well.
And this processor does some powerful enough to do everything I need to do really.
I mean to do some things on blender, sell things, come out, it's a graphics program,
the game can be on here.
You know, I have a nice little setup, I'm using that, and I'm going for it.
So I kind of think of what else to actually say, but I do like the way, oh, one thing
else I like is that when you have an audible account, your audible, audible's will play
out of the books that without even trying it, you know, I like the fact that I can do
that.
Now, I would love to imitate that on other machines, but for now, I think that is very
nifty.
So great, great, great, great.
Well, that's really all I got to say for right now, and I hope you guys have a fantastic
day.
Until next time, this will swift once in.
Take care of yourself.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
