Episode: 4274
Title: HPR4274: The Wreck - I'm alright!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4274/hpr4274.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:21:58

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4274 for Thursday the 19th of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled, The Reck I'm All Right, It is the 60th Show of Archer 72
and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 talks about his car wrecked and people he has met along the
way.
Hello, this is Archer 72, welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode it has been about 30 days since my accident and I wanted to report in.
My experience with this accident has given me a keen sense of what some people would
say is spirituality or faith or testing my faith.
Although I, other people may not have that experience but that's what I had for me.
Some people believe that there are guardian angels and some people that I talked to were
saying that they were saying that my guardian angel was pretty beat up and others would
say that my guardian angel needed battle pay and one thing my wife always says is never
drive faster than your guardian angel can fly.
Before I play audio from the wreck I'd like to describe how myself and the officers
in the police report said that it happened.
There was a northbound car that was at its turn signal on, it was going to go left and
I was coming southbound following my distance at 55 miles an hour behind a minivan that
minivan passed the one that was going to make the turn and in a fraction of a second
the another car that was going northbound towards the turning van didn't slow down and
instead of taking the right hand side into the ditch and that in the time that I had
no time to react he was coming into my lane and hit me head on at 55 miles per hour and
the audio you're about to hear is within several minutes after the crash after emergency vehicles
had arrived I was driving about to
speed limit I was behind I don't know a minivan and somebody tried to pass and then I don't
know if they were trying to swerve but they passed towards the left and then just came in my lane.
Were you were you going to work down that way sir?
I was going I was going southbound away I was only about two minutes three minutes away
from the it's okay behind me he was behind me okay if you may come you may come back
no I can move my back it hurts a little bit here but every major this way it's really really
discomfort and it feels like my leg is just I don't know if that's because of where
I should move my chest hurts a little bit from the impact
my my my chat I think it's because of the airbag my chest hurts a little on right here not on it's not
my heart it's here right here that's where it's like it's not not intense pain the most pain
if I could have anything okay
by myself by myself I'm assuming yes even my gear is not paid off
hey I think I don't know why you were there but I was saying he was on his way
it's definitely passed somewhere
where ya going?
I think one thing
We had
a
room.
The
Hi buddy. How are you feeling? Um, I think I broke it.
Can you give me a seat? Call it on the box.
Do you remember what happened?
I was just, I was, I thought I was calling close or far.
Keep your head straight and just talk. That's okay for you.
I was far, I left enough distance between me and the car in front of me.
A car in the northbound lane swerved off to the left like there was trying to pass somebody.
And I had no time to react or do anything.
Were you trying to pass?
No, I was not.
Were you trying to pass?
No, I was just trying to get home.
I was going about 55.
There's a lot more to that recording but I'll just stop it here.
Um, spices to say I was taken by ambulance to a local hospital called,
a town called Senthiana Kentucky which is my local town.
And from there, I decided I needed to be on a flight for life to University of Kentucky.
Which is a fairly large town called Lexington, Kentucky.
Where solace spider is from.
It took until the next day before they were able to repair the damage.
And they put in an intra medjolary rod which I'll link the Wikipedia article to.
And it's also known as an intra medjolary nail.
Or interlocking nail.
Or kuchka nail.
It is a metal rod forced into the medjolary cavity of a bone.
I am nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the body.
Gerhard Kuhnster is credited with use with the first use of this device in 1939.
During World War II for soldiers with fractures of the femur.
Prior to that, treatments of such fractures was limited to traction or plaster.
Both of which required long periods of inactivity.
I am nails resulted in early return to activity for the soldiers.
Sometimes even within a span of a few weeks, since they share the load with the bone,
rather than entirely supporting the bone.
The oldest intra medjolary nail was found in the knee of a mummy named Usermontu.
Their mains of an Egyptian man from more than 3500 years ago.
Researchers believe the pin was inserted after the man's death, but before his burial.
So while having a steel rod in me does not constitute technology,
the traditional sense of the hacker of the hacker idea.
But it does allow a person to get more mobile in a shorter amount of time and aids to healing.
I went into the hospital on November 2nd, 2024, and by the 9th of November,
I was ready to be released to the Cardinal Hill Rehabilitation Hospital,
where they provided rehab, occupational and physical therapy five days a week.
After I got out of the hospital, I had a room that had two beds.
The one next to me, for a couple of days, he had one as big toe amputated and had rehab for that.
And the other gentleman, for the next three to four days that I was still there,
had an amputation from mid-cafe down.
And he had a lot more pain tolerance than I did.
He was always raiding his pain up at 9, even though he didn't act like he was in pain.
And we also got to talk about the different types of prosthetics they have these days,
compared to even 50 years ago, to where there are some that even have a spring in their step
when you are walking to make it feel more natural.
And in some prosthetics, they look like a real limb, while others people choose not to,
and they are really colorful.
The days I had physical therapy included, moving your feet like you were pressing the hospital on both legs,
the bed and the good, to help increase circulation and stretch out the calf muscles.
It was an adjustable bed mat or better mat that could move up and down.
I would lay on that and put various things underneath my knees to move them in ways that I wasn't used to after the rack.
And at one point there was a, what I can only describe is a hand bike where it had some resistance to it.
And I was, since my shoulder was also somewhat injured, I would use that for about five minutes to stretch out the muscles.
After about, after maybe four or five days of regular exercise, they felt that I was ready for the stairs,
and so they had a stair simulator, and it was happened to be just about the same width as what I would have going up the steps to where I live.
The first time was pretty difficult, but I tried a few more times in the next couple of days.
And it got easier, and even now that I'm home, it's getting easier to get up and down.
And also before I went home, they, a couple of times, a couple of days in a row, they had me get into a mock-up of a car on the passenger side.
That was also adjustable to the height of what I thought that I would be getting into, which was a smaller truck.
And when I did go home, I did manage to get into that fairly well because of the mock-up they had.
When I wasn't in physical therapy, I was able to use my laptop that my wife had brought from home.
But because of having the glasses break in the accident, I would add to order new ones and getting used to the new glasses made this screen blurry.
So I went ahead and installed K Magnifier, which is the KDE Magnifier for the desktop.
And also at some time, and also there were times that I was using Termox when I wasn't using the laptop to experiment a little with Endmap to see what I could find on the network.
And apparently one of the commands Barrel could have broken the Wi-Fi temporarily.
But I can't verify that it did, but I'm going to put some screenshots since I did not capture the output of the Endmap command in a text file.
I'll have to give credit to Solar Spider for giving me the idea that I might have hacked the Wi-Fi because it is of just a funny coincidence that for almost a day after I ran that Endmap command that the Wi-Fi was down.
Well, that's all I have for now. Thank you for all your words of encouragement and prayers when I was in the hospital.
And I'm a mailing list and I'm nested on and now telegram.
And a big thank you to Solar Spider, aka Peter Patterson, for visiting me quite a few times in the hospital and in rehab.
Turns out we were only 30 minutes away, so it was finally get to meet and maybe we'll meet again under different circumstances.
It's been Archer 72. Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
