Episode: 4175
Title: HPR4175: what's in my bag part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4175/hpr4175.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:48:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4175 for Friday 2 August 2024.
Today's show is entitled What's in My Bag Part 2.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 38 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Operator Talks about his book bag for 2023-2024.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello everyone and welcome to the episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host Operator.
Hello, hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host Operator.
Today I have dumped out my new book bag.
I have returned a target book bag like four times now and it doesn't have as many
pockets which is good but anyways I'm going to be talking about my cell phone and how I had to get it set back up
and the struggles along the way and kind of a reach out to ask for how to reduce that pain next time around.
So I had a Samsung S10e small little phone I loved it and it just started getting sluggish and I was
due for a reset on Android and I figured well you know if I do a reset I might get another year out of it
and then you know I'll have to you know get a new phone because it's I think it was like 2017's when it came out.
So you know phones don't last long like these two so I said well let me ask if they have another phone laying around
the office so I'll get a new one and I didn't really think about it all at the time.
I should have probably stuck with my old one because I'm an old fart and I'm set in my ways.
So I have all these analog nice analog fancy earbuds.
I'm probably up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, probably 3 at least fancy earbuds you know 60, 70, 80, 90 dollar range those are as fancy as I'll get.
And then then I have various ones that I've collected over time through various means.
So I think my favorite ones are these Westones I don't know what brand they are W10's or something W10's W20's I think they're dual driver.
So before I get more into that I could do a whole other show on that and I know what's his name is.
Yeah W20's I'd like them the most but I had to really shove those in my ear so they need a custom custom ear plug for those.
You can take it's like radon custom earbuds where you mix two two plastics together and you rum together I cut the batch in half so you get two headphone batches basically you get a chance to mess up.
I pretty much like those they're they're nice so you basically you mix them compound together you let it set see me.
We're not editing this by the way if you hear some congee sounds it's my chair now try to fix it before this is a nice I'm all over the place right now.
This is a nice iron Miller aero chair I bought a new bottom aftermarket bottom for it because the bottom part ripped out but if you do not have a chair and you are in IT or still at please invest in a nice.
Excuse me a nice chair when I start talking is when I start yawning sometimes I got plenty of sleep last night so let me try to get some water here so I don't yawning put you to sleep.
Anyways exciting stuff you'll be talking about my cell phone setup my book bag setup and whatever else tickles my fancy.
So I've got my bag here and as I'm going through my bag of duplicate stuff I'm going to talk about my cell phone issues to order cell phone setup.
So go to the bag here I have a usb ducky I guess I'll go through the bag real quick organizing my bag it got kind of a out of whack because too many cables and switching from analog to usbc to analog audio everything's all mixed up now.
But this is a usb bash bunny from well it's originally from some other folks but the popularized by hack five basically it's usb networking device with a storage attached to it.
You can plug into a locked windows station and it will dump the password hash up that windows box and you can go crack it later so it's pretty terrifying piece of tech you can do all kinds of stuff it's basically a responder setup man the middle attack.
From just plugging in a usb device so it shows up as a wire device in a lot of a lot of laptops or devices will switch over to a wired network when they see one and that's why this one is such a powerful there's no there's no actual internet on it's just a local device I guess you could somehow set up multiple interfaces.
But anyways it's a local wired device when you plug it in I think and it just it switches over to that for for internet and in that way you have all the traffic goes through the device and you can do man in the middle attacks with it smbp1 and about hashes and stuff.
So that's a cool piece of tech that goes in the front pouch so I'm going to grab it here.
I went to a conference and got some of these some of these little pretty printed hacker hacker things from salt works which is a company that sponsored the event pretty cool guys do all kinds of fun stuff.
Here is a usb or hdmi display port to hdmi f adapter so if you have you want to plug in something hdmi or display port all you have is display port then you can use that dongle to switch it.
I'm going to put this on the floor here a usbc charger it's kind of a usb dongle you use them for switches so to usbc to usbc power and to usb ports looks like ones usb usb whatever and then it splits the hdmi.
So this is my portable I use it for my laptop to do hdmi out and I also use it for the switch so when I'm traveling I can plug it into a thing.
This is not anchor brand.
So yeah that goes in the kind of usb devices storage but place.
I keep a simple Dell wired mouse because I do not like wireless mice so I put that in the bottom of one of my sections.
Strangely enough I keep a toothbrush and a deodorant at least so let's put our deodorant on its 10 o'clock in the morning after Thanksgiving so bear with me.
So got deodorant I usually put that in the front pouch but they're not really enough room port now so it's going in the bottom.
What else do I have here? I have a myriad of these Jabra or no pelican pelican.
No the guys that make usb heads at plantronics and they're numbered.
I've labeled out a number printer because I had two of them and the coworker stepped on the line and a couple of them so I had like
two or three of them at some point and then I got two more so now I have five and it's not just a total mess.
So these are plantronics usb things they're showing there where it's I want to say these are six years old now.
They need new batteries and I probably won't get new batteries for them because they are the plastic that's deteriorating for the earpiece so that's no fun.
I'm here as a old style only key regular only key.
Password don't know.
It's a little bit different than your what do you call these guys?
Your UB keys is real popular. You can store up to 12 passwords on this guy.
This is the traditional only key the new duo is great because you don't have to because this only key sticks out so if you have a laptop and you're walking by something or you clip it it will go crunch and you'll have a bad deal.
Which I have not done before.
But when the duo came out it's a small form factor and it barely sticks out of the side.
It's only a problem if you have very tiny fingers but it has soft keys on it just like the only key duo.
Am I a young like cream?
So only key duo is great.
That's very expensive.
The problem with any kind of key based authentication is guess what?
You have to buy two.
And I went to an event where the Google gave away a thing and I don't know if it actually had two in there.
But it might have been sort of a scam because if someone gives you a USB dongle you're guaranteed a USB security dongle.
You use it you're guaranteed to buy another one because guess what?
You can't have one USB dongle.
So here's number one of my plan products.
So see if we can find all of them.
I got five and one so we're missing two three and four.
Here is a retractable octopus cable for USB to USB micro and Apple which I don't need Apple but I needed micro and USB.
The problem with this is when I bought it I thought and I was pretty sure I made sure that it was a data cable but it is not a data cable.
So this cable might not actually go in my book back so instead of this side.
Tills, positives, numbers, downers, a course prescription.
Those go in my little pouch in the front tweezers, toothbrush and toothpaste.
I actually have two toothbrushes.
One of these is actually supposed to go in my car.
So I'll put that one in my pocket.
That will go outbound.
The microphone I'm using is a Samson.
Something out there.
Samson go mic.
It's pretty slick. It's got an omnidirectional thing and whatever.
So that will go back and back at some points.
Again I had the W Weston.
Weston W20 earbuds.
I don't worry those as much because you've got to shove them way down in your ears.
They have a good sound.
Now I have another one of these protectable things because I'm about three.
I refuse to buy any cables but I finally broke down and bought these because I like to be a retractable.
I guess I'll have to keep one of them in my book bag because they're too convenient for charging.
I don't always need data but I always need charging.
These are another headphone brand.
I don't know.
It looks like an LG.
It's actually two headphones up and down.
I only know the brand of these but these are good.
I made the custom earbuds with those.
So you let it set.
You put a paper towel or a towel on your mouth while it's setting and you shove it in your ears.
Just look for custom earbuds.
And then when it's done you kind of get an exacto knife or a straight razor or whatever.
And cut off the end of the earbud and then until you expose the actual speakers.
So these are custom earbuds.
I like them a lot.
I still like my original ones that I made probably five years ago now.
They're starting to turn brown.
Here is a USB-C cable which is a USB-C data cable which I need.
So that's going to go into the USB slot.
My speakers or my headphones are too big.
So they go in a bigger compartment.
I always bring umbrella.
I think I did what's in my backpack when I was doing a hacking.
This is a clone.
Winproof K-O-L-U-M-B.
Winproof umbrella.
So I put that at the bottom.
The very bottom of my bag.
Barely fits in this guy actually.
It's kind of a rucksack.
I'm big.
I don't know how many thousands of big ol' beefy 26,000 milliamp battery.
That goes in this dumps where all the USB stuff goes.
You need to have that battery.
I keep a comb in my backpack just in case.
That goes in the front because it's small enough.
I use it to keep toiletries and very small electronics in the front pouch.
Stuff like two picks.
I have a Windows 10 UEFI boot USB stick.
I try to keep stuff to do tech support in my book bag at all times.
I still have this VisionTech 228GB pocket SSD.
I really should update this.
This has been running on two or three years old now.
So if I need to pop some boxes, do some Linux stuff, do some hacking.
I use the pen-testing framework instead of Cali or whatever.
Not the biggest fan of that stuff.
So I have another USB micro or mini.
I don't know which one, the bigger fat, small one.
So this goes to the USB hub.
So I actually don't even need this anymore.
That goes in my USB box.
What else I have? I've got some more tube paste.
Two tubes of tube paste.
I do the same thing on the USB one.
I buy.
It's little things like toiletries or whatever you need.
I will buy like five tubes of tube paste.
And like five tubes of Nios porn, things like that.
Because I can never find anything.
Actually, here's a third tube.
My wife is actually asking where all the tube paste is.
I think it's all in my book bag.
Yeah, I have three tubes of tube paste in my book bag.
So that's a little bit zealous.
So I'll keep the two smallest ones that are almost empty.
And give her back one of these guys.
Because she has that six cents.
Unlike me, I have 80D and I can't even tell you
that I've got three tubes of tube paste in my book bag.
What I had to buy was a USB-C splitter for power
and auxiliary audio for the car.
So you just plug in.
It's actually better. I should've used it all the time.
But when I've lost my auxiliary port,
my auxiliary port for my phone, I was quite depressed.
But then I realized if you get a splitter,
then you only have to plug in USB-C and no other analog.
So it's actually nicer.
And I pooped on it forever because I'm old, set my ways.
But I don't like having to have a dongle sticking out of my phone.
If you ever get a dongle or any kind of attachment for any kind of portable device
or anything you're going to put in your pocket,
always get a 90 degree angle.
So this is this brand for a USB-C to stereo.
A jack audio jack.
It's a 45 or 4.5 or whatever they call it.
28.
It's a K-O-Coup.
K-O-O-P-O-K-O-O-P-A-O.
Possibly.
K-O-O-P-A-O.
So it's a USB-C and then it's a 90 degree angle.
And then it goes to a regular headphone jack.
The problem is that some of my nicer, well when I say nicer,
I mean this is my 10 year old Sony XB.
These are my favorite XBA tubes.
Dual driver, Sony's.
They are also 90 degree.
So when it looks a bit like a puzzle,
when I plug in my phone,
because it comes out and then goes 90 degrees
and then goes up and then goes 90 degrees.
So it's kind of weird.
And this one I've fixed before,
it's quite a mess.
You can get 90 degree angle repair kits for
your stereo for your headphones,
but I won't do that.
Excuse me.
I will not be repairing anywhere headphones.
I will always buy
XLR based modular headphones.
So if and when
you do have issues with the wires,
all you have to do is disconnect it
and buy more XLR cables.
I don't know why I haven't done that in the past 10 years.
So I think the Western ones
or whatever that would be 20s
are the modular XLRs.
I will from now on
and forever buy those
because they are modular
and you can swap out the cables once they go bad.
The drivers rarely ever go bad.
What goes bad is the cable, right?
And this took me this 9 degree angle with a kit.
I had to buy it.
I had to buy a kit.
I got two different kinds of 90 degree angle repair kits
from MaliBot Ali Express.
One of them was just a dumpster fire.
This other one is big and bulky
and it's very square.
And of course, you know,
since you're not a tiny robot,
you have to buy big parts
and big parts don't necessarily look right.
And it's like a 9 degree angle
that sticks out way.
And I had to like multiple layers of shrink range.
It was an hour job to repair these guys.
So I will never, ever buy non-
you know, XLR or whatever they call them
based modular connections.
So you can just swap the wires out.
I will never buy these again.
Oh, let's see.
So this goes away downstairs.
But yeah, the USB-C 90 degree angle
that goes in my front pouch
because it's small.
My work badge always goes back
if it's not on my neck.
It goes in my book bag.
That's my rule. I have a...
I take with a switch.
This is a four-port
power outlet.
Outlets to go for.
It's a compact,
a little fold up.
The cord wraps around.
It's a very short cord.
It wraps around itself.
I've had this guy for a thousand years.
I've used it a lot.
There's only one support here.
I'm using it.
Cool.
I'll pull out this.
And boom. You got three extra ports.
Or at least one extra port.
It actually has a reset button on it.
Which is kind of odd.
That goes in the bottom.
It actually goes with my switch.
It's supposed to go with my switch.
Because I use that more portedly than on the road stuff.
And then a nice still adapter from work.
For travel.
I use pouches.
I'm hand sanitizer.
Goes on a side pouch.
Spare key.
I keep my spare key in my book bag.
So that way if I ever lose my keys.
And I'm traveling.
I can at least have a backup plan
that if I have my book bag I can get my card.
Again, Neosporn.
Pain relief.
I think this is the...
I try to stay away from the cream base when I don't like it.
So this time of year my nose will get real dry.
And sometimes I have to shove Neosporn up in there.
Oh look, we found number three.
Now, number three, Planetronics headset.
It has a headset from a different piece.
I have an entire bag.
I mean, this is a sandwich sized bag.
Almost full of earbuds.
And different kinds of earbuds.
And connectors.
And whatever.
But I always end up using usually going custom.
If you're not going to go custom with the mix.
The silicon mix or whatever.
I would go with a foam.
Like it's a...
You know the ear plugs you put in your ear and your twist them.
You shove them in your ear and they expand.
Are they expanding your ear foam and the foam base ones?
I would go with those.
And you want to get a small sip because they're pretty tight.
But depending on your headphone manufacturer.
They're aftermarket.
Aftermarket things for them.
But I keep all these connectors because
you never know when you lose one or
it's more than what comes off.
And they're...
You know, you collect enough of them.
You'll have enough to support.
And you kind of divide.
So that's what this is on here.
It's like a little right angle.
In your ear.
A little waffly bit that sticks out.
Like, I don't know what they call them.
Attention-based thing.
So that's number three, Planetronics.
I try to keep them charged at all times.
I have a charge master 9000 which is a 20 port USB charger.
Is there a 13 port USB charger?
Some crazy like that.
And it's in a drawer along with every single other type of charger that I have.
That is a color coded.
So I have an electric cable.
A colored electric tape on different types of connections.
So if it's a...
Because they're all black.
Like all the adapters are black, right?
So you're trying to, you know, you're in a dark drawer.
Trying to find a USB micro.
You'll never find it.
I started taping the USB micro stuff.
So I at least know.
Most of them were easy to find.
But the USB micro that I can never find them to plug in my headset.
Here's a lowly go.
RIS ESP32.
It's an ESP32 on your wrist.
It looks like they double-stuck the sticker on here.
Oh, this is like a sticker you can put on something.
Anyways.
This was my attempt at about an old Samsung Galaxy S5.
Whatever.
And then I bought this to try to work on my own assistant.
The AI of myself.
Or some kind of way.
So I don't have to scream in my pocket to talk to Google.
Or to make a note.
And this thing, the battery life on this is awful.
It's a...
We call it proof of concept kind of tech board.
I mean, it looks cute.
It looks like an Apple Watch.
But the battery life is so awful with it.
If you had the wireless on.
It's not really gonna...
I can barely get it to update.
Here are some backup.
Back up crappy headphones.
So just in case I'm on a call or something or I need to join.
I'm gonna get rid of these and put them in a trash can probably.
These are sold.
They don't fit in my ears or anything.
So we've got trash.
I've been carrying them around.
Having them as a backup at work.
But it's not even worth it.
If you're...
I'm not poor like me.
If you're thrifty like me.
You'll keep plastic bags in your book bag.
Or tupperware in your car.
So when you travel or you go to an event.
Or you can go to a parent's house or whatever you get food.
It's not... although it's not attractive.
You can put your leftovers in a plastic bag.
A lot of people use tupperware or whatever else.
It's socially acceptable but honestly.
If you get some even gown size.
These are freezer bags.
Not a big gown size bag.
But their freezer bags are strong.
And you can just put your leftovers in there.
It doesn't matter.
Form over function.
It pretty much wraps it up with the book bag.
I wanted to talk about my setup here with the phone.
Oh good.
Okay, so we're still good.
We're 23 minutes in.
Wow.
If you're still here.
We're going to talk about Android.
I'm going to see if I can record in the background.
Test, test, test, test.
And see if it's actually working.
Okay, so this is the first time using whatever this is.
I think it's actually a Samsung voice recorder.
Which I don't know why.
But I have Samsung phones.
I'll have my little stick with something that I know is not a thousand percent malware.
So we'll go through the process.
Usually it ends up being.
I figured out that you have to get your two-factor authentication copy
over first.
So we use duo.
And Microsoft Authenticator.
And I use Google Authenticator.
So I use Google Authenticator for personal.
Microsoft for work.
And duo for work.
So that was the first priority was taking the live phone.
The old phone and copying over the identities to the new phone.
Which is kind of scary.
Because duo lets you back up your stuff to Google.
A personal Google account.
Which that's not really great.
And then Google Authenticator lets you back up.
Google Authenticator to itself.
Which is also a terrible idea.
So once I did do that.
I disabled it.
I disabled it and duo.
You can't back up that.
Restore back up from cloud or whatever.
To cloud back up whatever.
That sounds like a horrible idea.
So anyways.
The first thing I did was the Authenticator stuff.
I realized that they moved off of a multi-user
like a different user modes.
Work profile and user profile.
They moved away from that.
And now it's just one profile.
But the email was awful.
We didn't have Outlook.
But we were in Microsoft shop.
So it was kind of a dumpster fire.
So now it's everything is on one platform.
But they locked down third party applications.
So now you can't run third party APK.
So I am fine with that.
Except for DNS66 is the adblocker I use.
For third party adblocking ads.
So now I get banners with, you know,
the scandally clad women
on some of the applications I use.
So that's kind of discerning.
Things I have on here.
Bandcamp.
Let's see.
Call it Google Calendar.
Now there's a difference between the calendar that comes with Samsung
and the Google Calendar.
So you want to be aware of, you know,
calendar is the same calendar calendar calendar.
No, you want actual Google Calendar.
Make sure you're disabling all the other Samsung contacts
and Samsung calendar and Samsung clock
and Samsung.
This anything that has a Google name.
You want to make sure you're using the right one.
On your code controller,
copilot GPS is offline maps.
So if you're ever in the middle of nowhere,
you'll have a cell phone signal.
You can use copilot to get offline maps.
I use beeper now and try to use beeper
for multi-checkline protocol.
It's still in the works.
They're eventually probably going to charge work.
Right now it's free.
Wait a minute.
I use it for Discord and Slack and LinkedIn.
It's more for direct messages right now.
It's kind of wonky for chats.
So if you, somebody at signs you,
you will get pinged.
It'll show like an at sign and you know
that someone's talking to you.
If you get a DM, you'll definitely know
because it will show up as a new thing.
Well, does somebody respond to the thread?
I can say you ask a question and somebody responds to the thread.
Then you won't see that.
So what I've been doing is I've been typing in my question.
And then just hoping that the hoping
that I don't miss a response.
Disk usage is great.
One word.
Let's you see the space.
What's using all the space on your entire device?
Not just one specific part of it.
Google Docs.
Google Drive.
Duo Excel.
Comes with Microsoft Suite, I guess.
365.
Family link I use for the kid.
He's getting old enough to worry.
He's starting to buy past stuff.
Firefox Nightly.
I did do a video on YouTube for that.
If you search freeload101
and Firefox adblocking,
you'll get two videos.
One of them will tell you how to use
Firefox with any plugin.
And it just basically,
you turn on developer mode
and you assign a plugin ID
or like a plugin repository ID
with whatever you want to use.
So I use my own
Pository with different
three or four different plugins in it.
It's kind of complicated.
That's why I have the video for it.
GY.
Gly clocks.
G-L-Y-C-O-X
is a graphic equalizer for Android.
So if it's too loud to quiet,
not enough bass, too much bass,
you can get a little bit more out of whatever.
G-M-O-G-R-X, of course.
If you don't have prescriptions
or, yeah, prescriptions,
you can use GY.R-X to get a good
coupon deal.
And a lot of places will
honor GY.R-X.
Yeah, Home Depot.
The Inkbird app,
which is for my stupid barbecue
wireless Visa garbage juice SSH
actually has a cloud-based backup.
If you pay there,
$2 for that,
you can back up all your
profiles in the cloud.
And you also can have the option to back up the identities,
which includes passwords.
So if you don't want to back up your passwords
for your SSH stuff,
you can choose to do that,
but it will lease back up the profiles.
So I don't have to set up, you know,
my website, my home profile,
my flex home profile,
my local profile, it just backs it all up.
The Coguer app for my medications,
Google Lens for text,
text, text,
OCR, I use it for OCR stuff.
Last past, of course,
they've all been breached, so
don't hate.
Google Meet, Mint Mobile,
for, you know, looking at
building and stuff like that.
Miss Notifications Reminder,
it's Miss Notifications,
I think called Reminder.
Miss Notifications Reminder, yeah.
I use that for repeated notifications for work stuff.
So if I have a work calendar event
or a meeting or an email
or teams, it will nag me.
What is it every two minutes?
Multi-VNCs, the best VNC client I've seen for Android.
Nova, which is a desktop launcher for Android.
It allows you to compress your desktop
and have a bunch of accessibility
and easy features.
Ombi and NZB360, that's a whole
thing with NZBs
and setting up Plex that's a whole
episode in itself.
You can Google all that.
Let's see, Outlook for work,
Plex, I use for Plex,
and Plex Amp is a music version of Plex basically.
You can offline a bunch of music.
RealLink app only,
just for convenience.
I hate their app
and they make you use it.
I have an API on my website.
On my GitHub
that will pull
full HD
from the real-in cameras.
If you do not use their application
to web up their phone app
or their desktop app,
you can not easily access
the full HD content.
You have to use their
stupid apps.
That's a feature, not a bug.
Snap scene for photo stuff,
but you can actually do
just print out a sheet of
barcodes or create a document
that has your stupid
barcodes on it.
Taco Bell, because I hate myself.
Teams,
telehealth for personal health,
they use, I think telehealth uses
better help uses telehealth.
So a better help.com is pretty
cost-effective
ways to get mental
help or to get
mental help.
So if you want to
talk to somebody
and everybody needs to talk to
somebody, I'm curious who you are.
We all have problems.
We're all different.
Even though we're all the same.
So talk to somebody.
Trust me, it'll help.
Especially if you're in a relationship
and you're trying to make sure
everybody's happy.
Tile, I put tiles on everything.
If you put the button on a tile,
it can get your phone.
So that works good.
If you can't find your phone,
you can use it to find your phone.
I've got one on my wallet.
My phone.
My keys.
My water thing.
I think I have one
for my child.
If he's around or
goes about, I can just hit that
and it'll start beeping.
He'll yell for him.
He won't answer or he'll
ignore me or whatever it is.
But if I hit the tile button,
he stops everything he's doing
and starts running towards me.
And it's like, Dad.
So it's kind of interesting.
Let's see what else.
Tile, not too much of your time to leave.
Google used to have a support for this.
But it would tell you when you're
supposed to leave for something.
So you give it like a 15-minute
but it tells you, based on like
the traffic patterns and stuff,
when you're supposed to leave for things.
That's pretty cool. It saved me.
I would say it saves me
maybe once a month, once every other month
from missing a meeting
or being a little bit late for something
that I would normally.
Torque T-O-U-T-O-R-Q-U-E.
That's ODB.
I see a sensor I have for my car
that I use for just, you know,
clearing codes and getting
basic codes and trying to figure stuff out
myself. Google Translate.
I got Twitch for a break-sec security.
The break-sec B-R-A-K-E
Sec security podcast.
I listen to Uber app.
I always keep that up to date
because the figure of credit cards
expires or something and you're trying to get an Uber
and you have to like put in a credit card
and spend 20 minutes trying to get the app activated.
So what I'm doing with the phone stuff
is that I want to say,
it took me all day.
All day I spent on my phone trying to get it set up.
And even then there's little bits and pieces of stuff
I had to set up.
I had to log in, you know, set up last pass
and then set up, you know, everything,
everything that wants authentication,
which is every app now.
The problem is that my Google voice
is the app name is Voice,
which starts with the V,
which is at the end of all the apps.
Because I was supposed to do dinner
and take the kit to a scout,
voice to scout.
Yeah, I'm almost done.
Cup scouts thing.
So I'm that troop to the kind of annoying
and my whole life is run by Google voice
and Google hounders
and work stuff.
I have Yelp only just to look for a restaurant
that are near me.
You know, you get burned a few times
and zoom for work stuff too.
That's pretty much it.
We'd normally have DNS66
and I would also normally have like
some kind of aftermarket YouTube app
to download YouTube videos, but I can't do that.
So I need to find a way
to download YouTube videos
without a third party APK.
I guess you could use
to YouTube VL with a terminal emulator,
which doesn't sound like a bad idea.
I actually don't think about it.
You can also probably
launch APKs within a terminal emulator,
a third party.
There might be some shenanigans
you can do around that.
If you do like a terminal emulator
and then launch an APK inside of that terminal emulator,
maybe that's the way to escape out.
I doubt that would work.
But I wouldn't be surprised what.
Because if you block the
party APKs, you're not blocking
arbitrary code execution, right?
Fundamentally,
if you're not using application white listing,
you're allowed to launch
whatever you want to launch.
So if one program is allowed
to execute another program,
then you're done.
You win.
So there might be a way to do it
with a terminal emulator to launch
third party APKs.
I will look into that and do a show
if I figured out.
Otherwise, you have to downgrade your home,
root it, and then upgrade.
Use a third party ROM
Anyways, I've got 36 minutes
on what you guys go.
I know I've been all over the place with this,
but I figured I'd record something while I'm
going through my book bag and
figuring stuff out.
Don't have any upcoming up projects here.
But yeah, jamboree,
if you're into Android emulation,
testing, pen testing stuff,
check out my jamboree
if you want to contribute or help out
or be on host or co-host or whatever.
I'm looking for people.
I'm looking for Android development
ninjas or Android
pen testing ninjas to help me
in my next steps.
Appreciate it and hope you guys have a good one.
You have been listening to
Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio
does work.
Today's show was contributed by
a HBR listener like yourself.
Click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our
things.net.
On this advice status, today's show is
released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0
International License.
