Episode: 4514
Title: HPR4514: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #9
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4514/hpr4514.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:16:56

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,514 for Thursday 20 November 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 hash 9.
It is the 360th show of Ahukah, and is about 18 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Ahukah shares part 9 of his list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
This one is coming to you from the Reserve Q.
You know what that means.
There have not been enough shows submitted.
And has had to pull from the Reserve Q to keep the schedule going.
That's not good.
Hacker Public Radio is a community project and it relies on the members of the community to submit shows to keep going.
And you know, if that we get to the point that we don't have any shows, we'll just shut everything down.
I'm going to assume if you are listening to this, you are probably subscribed and would not want that to happen.
So I encourage you to submit a show.
So I'm going to continue on the series that I have done of my YouTube channel subscriptions as of January of 2025,
which is when I'm recording this, because it's going in the Reserve Q.
You know, who knows when you'll hear it, but.
So I'm going to start this with NASA 360.
I've got a number of NASA channels.
They're different in some ways.
So NASA 360 has recently been doing videos about the Europa Clipper, which is the mission to send spacecraft to Europa,
which is considered to be one of the prime areas to look for possible signs of life.
Because there's obviously a substantial amount of water under the surface.
You know, the top of the surface is ice, but under the ice there's signs that there's liquid water and possibly a lot of it.
And what we know is that in general, every place we found water, we've found life.
So that's what this is.
Those videos are generally pretty short, a couple of minutes.
Unlike NASA Edge, NASA Edge is a channel that does longer videos.
And I'd say they probably average about a half hour per video, some longer, some shorter.
But they will do things like follow the launch of a spacecraft or visit where the craft is being developed and interview the engineers and things like that.
So, you know, if you're a big space geek like I am, that's worth taking a look at.
Then there is NASA Goddard.
And again, NASA Goddard is put out by the Goddard Space Flight Center.
If you know anything about the history of rockets and space that Robert Goddard was one of the pioneers in developing rockets.
And so they named one of NASA's centers, named after Robert Goddard.
Some of their videos are very long, you know, anywhere from half hour to an hour, in some cases.
Like, you know, 33, 133, sorry, 133 days on the sun, or a half hour long one on the mind bending math inside black holes.
A lot of the others are rather short, you know, 2345 minutes, a lot of them are heliophysics.
Heliophysics is simply the sun, you know, how does the sun work?
Then there is the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and they have a channel.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory, they do, well, they're responsible for developing a lot of the spacecraft that get launched.
And most of the videos on this channel are, you know, short ones.
So they do a monthly thing called What's Up that tells you about what you can see in the sky.
So if you wanted to know where the planets are going to be during the month and, you know, the phases of the moon and stuff like that.
This is a guide for amateur astronomers.
They do things like, you know, Mars report, what happens in Martian Spring, stuff like that, but generally not too terribly long.
Then there's NASA Johnson. That's another space center. This is the one that's located in Houston.
So if you ever remember Houston, we have a problem. Well, Houston is the Johnson Space Center.
I'm sort of hoping to get there. I have not gotten to it yet.
I did spend a week at the Kennedy Space Center and several days in Huntsville, Alabama at the U.S. Space and Rocket Center.
So it would be nice to add this in. Now, NASA Johnson does a number of things. They do space to ground.
Their videos are just a little longer, maybe six, seven, eight minutes, and space to ground is usually talking about what's going on with the International Space Station.
And, you know, if the way things work is that the Kennedy Center is responsible for the launch of the vehicle and then once it is in orbit, everything gets turned over to the Johnson Space Center.
So they will talk about what's going on on the ISS because now that's their responsibility to take care of that.
They will do animations, for instance, of space walks periodically. The astronauts on the ISS need to do a space walk to repair a piece of equipment, something like that.
And they'll plan all of that and then they do an animation that shows you how that should work.
Then there is NASA X. Now, NASA X, I think, is sort of on hiatus right now, but it was a series of basically half hour shows that they did.
Like, things like making the skies safe for unmanned spacecraft, revolutionizing the efficiency of air travel.
So, you know, we think of NASA as being mostly concerned with space, but in the United States, NASA also, it's national aeronautics and space administration.
So, they're also responsible for research on airplanes and flying and things like that, so that's where the NASA X comes in.
Then there's nature video. This is from the publication nature, which is one of the leading science journals.
In fact, it's one of those that if you were a scientist and you wanted to get tenure, getting one of your articles published in nature would be a big boost to getting that tenure, because it's very prestigious.
Now, they do a podcast, they do videos, and it's all really good stuff.
So, most of the videos are actually pretty short, like a three-minute guide to muon colliders, four-minute thing on vaccines against cancer.
So, they'll give you an example of the sort of thing you get on nature video.
Now, next one I have is Nixie does Linux, and Nixie is a young lady who is into open source and has a channel.
I would say she has of late tended to do longer videos primarily, often from conventions and things like that.
But her videos are infrequent, so the fact that the videos are longer, they don't come out that often.
The next one is Normulator, and it's N-O-R-M-U-L, the number 8-O-R.
Normulator is another one of the gaming people who particularly does civilization a lot, but also other games in the general sort of strategy Forex area.
And he will do videos of coaching sessions with people on how to be a better player.
Sometimes he'll do something where he takes a look at a game that he has played, and so, you know, fear into gaming, that would be something.
Then there's Norwegian Cruise Line. As I've already mentioned, I am someone who's interested in cruises, my wife and I like to travel.
That's kind of our objective for our retirement years.
So this is the official channel of the Norwegian Cruise Line company.
And a number of people that I have subscribed to that have their own channel as cruisers get recruited to doing cruise videos for Norwegian Cruise Line.
So a lot of overlap there.
The next channel is Notes in Spanish, and that goes with my interest in learning Spanish as I've been doing.
And it's a couple. The husband is English, I believe, and the wife is Spanish.
And they got married, and he moved to Spain, and so they do videos.
And they're, I'm going to say six, seven minutes long.
And we'll be talking about some aspect of Spain and Spanish culture and the Spanish language.
Then there's objectivity. Now objectivity is kind of fun.
There's a fellow Brady Heron who has sort of a guiding light behind the number of the channels I have subscribed to.
And what he has done is he's gotten involved with different kinds of scientific topics.
So he's got one we'll get to it a little bit about chemistry.
And so he's got a very prominent well-known chemist who helps him do these videos.
Objectivity it has to do with the Royal Institute in Britain.
So he'll go there and it's mostly the Royal Institute, occasionally something else.
But he's looking at objects that have a history within science, what he calls science treasures.
So it might be, you know, here's an instrument that Isaac Newton used.
And it's the actual one.
So these are kind of interesting and he'll frequently have guests come on.
And what they do is they will randomly pick items that they want to look at and see, you know, how interesting is it exactly?
The first one is OLF Conference, OLF being Ohio Linux Fest.
Now I was affiliated with Ohio Linux Fest some years back and there are videos on video audio on hacker public radio from that time.
I was in charge of public relations, publicity, that sort of thing.
You know, I did it for a few years and then moved on.
But they set this channel up because they wanted to be able to stream videos from the conference.
Well, sometimes streaming, sometimes recorded and then shown later.
But if you weren't able to get to the conference, you know, you could take a look at these videos and at least see some of the things that went on.
And I think I'll finish up with our fake history.
Because as you know, history is one of my interests and our fake history is a channel.
It's also a podcast and Sebastian Major will take something and people have ideas historically.
So for instance, take a look at Columbus and, you know, what did Columbus do exactly?
You know, the United States, at least there is this whole mythology of Columbus discovered the Americas.
And so, well, of course there were people here already, but it turns out he had a false log.
In a number of ways, he faked some of the things he was doing.
And that's the kind of thing Sebastian loves to tear into.
Another one being on witch hunts, which is another thing that people often get wrong.
A lot of people think, for instance, that during the medieval period that there were witch hunts and witches were burned at the stake and all of that.
And that didn't happen actually.
When there was witch hysteria, it was later in history.
It was basically coincided with the Protestant Reformation for reasons we could argue about.
But anyway, our fake history is a fun thing to learn about things that you thought you knew and it turns out maybe you didn't or you didn't know it that well.
So this is a hookah for hacker public radio signing off and is always encouraging you to support free software.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Posting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
