Episode: 4304
Title: HPR4304: Travel Pouch for Cables
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4304/hpr4304.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:40:24

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4304 for Thursday the 30th of January 2025.
Today's show is entitled Travel Pouch for Cables.
It is the 350th show of Ahu Ka and is about 4 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summer is.
I have purchased a very useful travel pouch.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahu Ka, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
And this is something that is going into the Reserve Q.
So if you're hearing it, that means that HPR is short of shows and it's time for you
to step up and do something about that.
And this show will demonstrate just how easy it is because it's just a little quickie
that I'm recording that has to do with something that I ran across that I have found extremely
useful.
And it's basically a pouch zippered container for keeping all of my cables organized
for when I'm traveling.
And I do like to travel and when I do, I like to take all my electronics with me.
So I have a Fitbit watch, I've got an Android phone, I've got a Chromebook, I want to
have chargers for everything, you know, some miscellaneous USB stuff, extra headphones.
And you know, I need to have two kinds of headphones because there is no ordinary headphone
jack on my Android phone.
So I have to have one with a USB-C connector as well as the standard headphone jack.
It's a lot of stuff.
Now, you know, I used to, you know, if I was getting ready to travel, start, you know,
running around or where is my spare cable for this, that and the other thing and throw
it all into my suitcase and it was a mess.
So what I found, this pouch, the one that I have is by a company called BUBM, which stands
for Bee Unique, Bee Myself.
I don't know that this is any better than any of the other ones out there, but the point
is, I got this, it's about the size of a hardcover book, give you a good idea of the dimensions.
And I filled it with all of the appropriate cabling and then, you know, anytime I'm going
to do any traveling at all, all I do is I grab this pouch, throw it in my suitcase, I'm
ready to go.
It's as simple as that, you know, get into a hotel room, just pull out the pouch and
like, okay, whatever I need, it's right there.
I find that very handy and I'm imagining there might be a few people in the hacker public
radio land that could make use of something like that as well.
Like I say, there's a ton of these things, you know, if you go to Amazon or whatever
online stores, you happen to frequent, I'm sure you can find many of them, it doesn't have
to be this particular brand.
But anyway, that's just something that I found handy and I thought I would do a quick
little show and I hope you see just how easy this is, all I had to do was just plug in my
microphone and start talking and it can be just that easy to do a show for hacker public
radio.
So, please, if you're hearing this, that means we're low on shows, so please record a show.
It's really easy.
So this is a hookah for hacker public radio signing off and encouraging you as always
to support FreeSoftware.
Bye-bye.
