Episode: 4023
Title: HPR4023: Information Transparency for world peace
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4023/hpr4023.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:46:40

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4000 and 23 for Wednesday the 3rd of January 2024.
Today's show is entitled Information Transparency for World Peace.
It is the first show by new host Neo is free and is about 32 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is an idea based on the new world order ideology and the morality of Edward Snowden.
Excuse me.
So, hi.
This is your host Neo is free.
Recording for you for HPR Radio, Hacker Public Radio.
And today is Christmas Day.
And well, what can I say about Christmas Day?
Not a big fan of Christmas Day.
And fact for me, Christmas Day is the one day I let the rules go out the window.
Which means I've had a bit to drink.
And for me, that also means I have to have a lot of water.
So, anyway, that's not why we're here.
Today I'm going to talk about the possibility of using computers.
To keep governments peaceful.
Now, in this day and age, governments are always fighting.
They always want more of what they don't have.
They always seem to want less of what they do have.
Now, why is that?
Well, it comes down to fear.
Now, what is fear?
Well, fear is fundamentally a lack of understanding.
So, how can we use computers to control this?
Well, it seems to me we need a better system to enable transparency.
Now, obviously, a lot of people are not always capable of understanding certain types of information and processing certain types of information.
This is why we have confidentiality.
So, transparency has to be categorized into specific kinds of information.
Now, what kinds of information can we categorize transparency into?
Well, let's think for a moment about the movie Citizen 4.
Well, it wasn't really a movie. It was a documentary about Edward Snowden.
Now, in that documentary, he mentioned an NSA system called X-keyscore.
He also mentioned a system called Eagle Eye.
Now, without going into too much detail about those two systems,
because it could be very dangerous to go into too much detail about those two systems,
those systems were designed to allow intelligence agencies, not just the NSA,
but multiple intelligence agencies to collect personal data about everyone via key terms.
Now, those key terms could be anything and those key terms could be combined into multiple searches.
So, using multiple searches, the results could be very accurate and very specific.
Now, I'm not talking about searching for specific information about specific individuals or events.
I'm talking about using key terms, combining key terms in multiple searches to find information about what is going on in the world.
Now, governments should enable, should allow, rather, or even authorize,
companies like Google, Bing, Yahoo, DuckDuckGo, and other search engines to have this functionality.
For key terms, such as, well, any key term, as long as the key term is not specific to an individual.
Now, the systems that Edward Snowden were talking about, the key terms, one of the criteria of key terms,
was that they were unique to individuals or events being searched for.
I'm talking about key terms that are not unique to individuals or events.
The results would be much more generalized and abstract, given an all-round view of what is happening in the world.
And this would allow for a much more broader picture of why things like the Russian Ukrainian war were started,
or why things going back even further in time, why things like Tony Blair started the war in Israel,
or even a bit, rather, one from that, why 9-11 happened.
Now, how would we get that broader picture? Well, comparison.
You get multiple results given similar information, and you compare.
Once you have 100 or so results with similar information, you compare.
And that's how you get an accurate picture. This can be done via software.
This software should be built into all mobile devices and all computers.
Now, if this system were to be implemented, I believe it would allow governments
to be much more peaceful in the world.
How would something like this be set up? Well, obviously, it would need a very large networking system.
And with Wi-Fi 7 coming in, I believe 2024, it's plausible to expect that by the time such a system was set up,
we could be looking at Wi-Fi 10 standards. Now, what am I basing that on? Well, we've had Wi-Fi 2.
We've had Wi-Fi 4. We've had Wi-Fi 5. We've had Wi-Fi 6.
Wi-Fi 7 is due to come out if it's not already out.
So, it's a growth pattern.
Such a system would take many years to implement because it would be an international effort.
And no doubt, it would take the... it would take teamwork from agencies like Five Eyes
and other such intelligence agencies to authorize such an endeavor.
Now, most of us listening to this are either hackers, crackers or other such individuals with interest in technology, maybe cyber security.
So, why am I talking about this? Well, cyber warfare is the largest threat to the modern world.
Now, as long as there is conflict between governments, there is a huge need for information.
As long as that information, that need for information is there, there is a need to obtain confidential and classified information from governments,
oppositional parties, large companies by any means possible, that includes illegal activity.
This is a breeding ground for hacking activity.
Now, Russia is the most prominent country in hacking technology.
Russian hackers are the elite.
I think most people know that in this field.
Even Vladimir Putin uses Russian hackers.
He has been accused of that by not just people in his own country but by people in other countries.
And you can search that on the internet.
So, he has got very little problem with allowing hacking to take place.
Now, why is that? Well, Russia is not a superpower and Russia will never be a superpower.
So, what does Mr Putin want to do instead? If he can't become a superpower, he wants to bring other superpowers down to his level.
This is classic international conspiracy.
Take a look at the storyline of gladiator from the movie.
A Roman general is asked to save Rome by Caesar just before Caesar's son murders him.
And then Caesar's son orders this Roman general to be executed.
But our Roman general kills the guards and escapes.
He is then caught and he is enslaved as a gladiator.
Why do I bring this up? Well, because Russia is the Roman general.
Russia has been caught by the superpowers.
Many years ago, Russia might have been a superpower for erring to war and the threat of nuclear activity, Russia fell hard.
And now, Russia is literally desperate to try and prove itself to the world.
And the same concept, the same philosophy, the same way of thinking applies to any country that cannot play on the same level
as another country that has economic, sociopolitical, industrial and technological power.
In that kind of environment, there is need for information. Why is that need for information?
It is looking for a way to grow and they are willing to do it illegally.
The same applies to a company that is desperate enough to outsmart its competitors will also resort to illegal means to seek information.
That has been proven many, many times.
If the information is already out there, companies and governments do not need to resort to illegal means, aka hacking,
and as long as the source of the information is anonymous, it cannot be competitive.
Now, what do I mean by that? Well, a safe example company A is trying to find out how company B engineered a system that can extract carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
Company A runs a search and finds the information online, but there are no markers as to where that information came from.
They found the information, there are no markers. That information could have come from any number of places.
It could have come from company C, D, E, it could have come from company Blue Moon.
It could have come from a company in another galaxy.
As long as there is no markers to indicate where the information came from, neither company B can say that company A is using their idea.
Nor can company A say that company B has to
give them any kind of service or money or anything to use that information.
It is basically an extension on freedom of information and the majority of this kind of information would be unintelligible.
How many people in Safe For Example, how many people in Safe For Example in your average test goes express
for your average Aster would understand the schematics involved and the technical specifications in such engineering diagram.
Very few. So, essentially, it would take a niche group of people, the engineers and the scientists that are working in that field.
So, it is not a set of information that many people would understand.
Likewise, information that is open to everyone, for example,
information about why things are happening in the news.
As long as there is no indication as to where the information is coming from, people are free to make their own conclusions.
And those conclusions should not be put on the internet, those conclusions should be kept private because people making conclusions without facts
results in paranoia.
You tell a story to someone and by the time that person has told the same story ten times, it is a completely different story.
So, when the tenth person is telling the story, it is merely a perception.
It is not accurate.
Inaccurate information leads to lack of understanding which leads to fear, which leads to conflict.
I hope this system that I have tried to talk about today would remove.
I have been your host, Neo3, for HPR, Hacker Public Radio. Thank you for your time.
Thank you for your time.
