Episode: 4062
Title: HPR4062: HPR Music Series? - How will it go for the girl and me?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4062/hpr4062.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:08:04

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4162 for Tuesday the 27th of February 2024.
Today's show is entitled, H.P.R. Music Series.
How will it go for the girl and me?
It is hosted by Fred Black and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Fred Black pitches an idea for a series of music being shared and teaches
a tune.
Hello there.
Here's your local laminary folk music enthusiast, Fred Black.
Back with their Nikhil Haipa to do stuff, I guess.
Today I'm back to present an idea for a project or a series that would be interesting
to see the responses of the community consisting of that we musicians in the community.
I teach each other simple little tunes that aren't too hard to play, then we learn music
from each other.
And for you who don't play an instrument, well here is some music, and this might also
be an episode that I'm one myself, but this episode might be best heard in normal speed,
not at like two and a half times speed, because music doesn't sound that well when played
too fast, but well.
So today I've got a tune from Scania, it's in G major, and it's called Who
Should Go For Yanta Mey, coming from the southern part of Sweden, a region called Skåne
or Scania, and well it sounds a bit like this, now I learned this as a sling polska, but
I've also heard it as a polska, if you know what it is, but eh, well here it is as a sling
polska, if you know what it is as a sling polska, it's a sling polska, if you know what it is as a sling polska,
well here it is as a sling polska, if you know what it is as a sling polska, it's a sling polska,
well here it is as a sling polska, if you know what it is as a sling polska, it's a sling polska,
that might not have been perfect, and my little upper might be a bit out of tune, but
I think it holds up, so you start with a D, just note that you need one octave space upwards, and that's it,
so you start by playing this little part, which is D, G, F sharp, G A, so
and then you play C, B, G, so up until now it's
and continuing with A, B, C, B, A, G, F sharp, G, E, F sharp, D
so you loop that, and you've already got the first half of the tune, so
and now you continue by going up to your higher D, so from and play D,
play D, D, B, A, no wait, D, D, B, G, B, A, C, C, B, A, so
I think that went too fast there, so again, so B, D, D, B, G, B, C, C, B, A,
play that twice, and then comes the ending part, which sounds a bit like this,
but that'd be the hardest part of the tune, but that's not, it doesn't matter, so you start with a G,
go down to F sharp, G, B, C, no, D, B, G, A, B, G, so the whole second part goes
like this, so there you have the whole tune, and I'll play the whole tune once again,
just like, just a bit slower than at the start,
again, because you usually do that,
so yeah, that's the melody,
and well, we're already at it, so I might just as well give you the second voice too,
so well, the second instrument, and it sounds a bit like this,
so you start with your G with a G,
and go up to B,
A, B, C, E, D, B, C, D, E, D, B, C, B, A, B, and then either F sharp or G,
depending on what you want to do, and up to A and then to G, so it's either
or
so yeah, you can use both because you loop this too, but that's the whole A part actually for the second voice,
and on to the B part,
which starts with a B, so B, B, G, B, G, D, B, A, A, G, F sharp,
loop that, and so basically we've already got
and then you continue with a D, D, B, D, G, A, G, F sharp,
E, D, so yeah, now the whole B part of the A of the second voice,
and now on to the whole second voice in one bit,
so with the magic of
recording and editing, I'll just get myself to play both the first and second voice at the same time.
That was me, Fred Black, trying to teach you who's going to go for Yantar Mai on the
It's Swedish folk music, so you never know which instrument it actually was written for, but it's traditional, so yeah.
So what do you think about this idea for a series, make a response show or make a comment on
heckofublicradio.org, and well, see ya!
Thanks for watching, see ya!
