Episode: 4265
Title: HPR4265: Drivecasting: arm sleeves, glasses and more.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4265/hpr4265.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:16:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4265 for Friday the 6th of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Drive a Casting Arm Sleeves, Glasses, and More.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 14 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Scoti talks about arm sleeves and safety glasses.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello everyone, Scoti here, and welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
Today is another one of those drive casting kind of shows, you know, stream of consciousness.
Alright, today I'm using my live layer mic and hopefully it works out pretty good.
When I have it plugged into my laptop, I cannot play back the audio.
I have to unplug the live mic in order to hear the audio.
So I'm hoping it works out.
Also there's a loud truck behind me where I'm parked.
Hopefully that's not going to get picked up in there.
Alright, so the live mic combined with audacity works are pretty good.
I just played back that little short segment of audio after some processing.
And it sounds pretty good.
I didn't hear much of the hum of the diesel engine and all of that behind me.
So let's go.
Next thing I'm going to talk to you guys about, sleeves.
How many of you guys wear sleeves and that don't mean like a shirt with long sleeves.
I want you to imagine the long sleeve but without the shirt, you know, you might see athletes
wearing this kind of thing where they just have like an elastic sleeve pulled over their
arms to protect their arms.
Online when I was searching for it, what I saw a lot of is like people who want to protect
their tattoos so they wear these sleeves over their arms.
If you have a lot of tattoos and either you don't want them damaged due to the line of
work that you're in, your arms may be scraped, ruining your tattoo or sun blocking sleeves
as well.
That's another way that they're marketed.
They reduce the amount of sun like if you work out and like I do, that's the main reason
where I want them.
When you're driving, the windshield and the driver window feels like a magnifying glass
and the sun like just sort of beams on you all day long.
I'm trying to push the button on my car so it didn't turn off and there you go, there's
a little car sound.
So I want to reduce some of that sun like just, you know, melting the skin off of my
arms and I've seen drivers, people who are really light skinned or like if, or like
say if you're Caucasian or Latina or anything like that, your skin's really light.
I've seen drivers, the left side of their body is darker than the right side because the
left side is near the driver window so when they put their arms together, it's like there's
a very clear difference like one side of your body is cooked and the other side isn't
right, the other side is still raw.
So, you know, I'm dark so you won't see that difference with me but the pain and irritation
of just getting cooked on one side of the body, you still feel it, right?
So I'm looking to get a sleeve and I've went to Harbor Freight.
Harbor Freight has sleeves there, I bought a pair.
I knew these weren't the correct sleeves when I bought them but I still bought them anyway
because some protection is better than none.
But these are heat resistant, scratch resistant sleeves.
They're made of teflon and some other material and you know, not teflon, what am I talking
about?
Kevlar, Kevlar.
There you go.
They're a little bit on the scratchy side, you know, the kind of itchy.
My arms are pretty hairy as well so I think the hair kind of puts a little bit of a layer
of protection between me and the sleeve but I got to tell you, I'm going to probably
search for a sporting good store here pretty soon and see if I can go find a pair of sleeves
today.
You know, make a quick in and out and grab a pair if I can find them for a decent price.
If not, I'll have to order the ones that I saw online but the ones online almost look
like a stocking, right?
Like you've seen like a pantyhose, like anything will tear them or rip them or cause them
to run really easily and we're talking about something that I'm going to be pulling
on and off all day every day or not pulling them on and off all day but I mean daily I'm
going to be wearing these things and most of the time I'm not going to be brushing up
against much.
I mean, sometimes I will but you know, in other words, if they're that pantyhose material
then I may as well not buy that because it's just going to get ruined, right?
And not to mention when you work around a bunch of guys as well, you're going to hear
about that.
I was wondering if they had like that underarmor kind of material.
You know what I'm talking about?
They look like it's made out of, I don't know what these materials are made out of.
Like I guess what yoga pants are made out of that elasticy kind of material.
So that's what I'm kind of looking, that's what I'm hoping for anyways but we'll see.
I'll try to find something today.
And I stopped by lightals to see if they may have had them but they, you know, are light
als as it's a, it's a role of the dice, the kind of weird stuff they have in there.
That's, that's a store, it's a L-I-D-L, I think it's how you say it.
Some people go around here call it lethal, whatever.
That's one of those places you can go in and get your dinner and a lawnmower, you know what
I mean?
Like the center aisle always has some great stuff, you know.
Like you're going the outsides and it's like let me get some German chocolate, ooh I
like this cereal, I haven't seen that cereal before and then you're going the inside like
that little middle aisle thing that they have in there.
And then in that area you're like okay I'm going to buy a new dog house, here's a nice
impact drill and yes I will take some ski pants while I'm at it, you know, that's, that's
lightal.
You're going to get a little bit of everything in there and it's nice.
I mean I love it, I love, you know, I don't buy as much food there.
Sometime I'll get some trail mix and stuff but most of the time it's just the good to
that middle section and see what kind of cool stuff they got in there.
I mean even sell like kids toys and all kind of, I bought my daughter some kids toys from
there like the wooden toys, she likes pretending to cook us everything all the time.
So they had some kids toys, you know, little wooden blocks that are made to look like food
like eggs and cheese and all of the other good stuff.
And it's how, you know, I like wooden toys because they're durable.
So you know, they can be passed down, nice hand me down toys.
The plastic ones that she has had handed down to her, she's destroyed quite a bit of them
because they're like that hollow on the inside plastic kind of material.
So with kids they put everything in their mouth, they're going to bite it and all of that
crap and it just gets destroyed, you can't hand that back down what it's rolling.
So at least, at least these wooden ones, they hold up to a little bit more abuse.
And they're nice.
Yeah, and I mean, while we're at it, I mean I brought up Harbor Freight already, I guess
I can talk to you about a decent pair of sunglasses when you're an operator or driver,
whatever you want to call it, you cannot go anywhere without a decent pair of sunglasses.
All right, you want something that's polarized or if it's not polarized, I mean, to be honest
with you, I'll take anything if I had no glasses on me at all, you know, like if I had
a decent pair that are polarized, they're wonderful and say I dropped them and they got
scuffed up in the gravel or whatever, that's going to, that's going to give you frustration
the rest of the day because all the scratches seem like they always happen right in front
of your vision.
So you're going to be looking at these little scrapes and marks on the glass, you know,
so it's going to make you very upset to do that.
I try not to buy expensive sunglasses because of this reason, right?
I always end up either, you know, actually, usually it's a drop, right?
They drop land on the lenses and they leave a scrape which interferes with vision, right?
So you can't drive with that constant mark over your vision or it just takes you off.
So when I get sunglasses, I always get a dual purpose like they're the sunglasses but
they're also safety glasses and a pair that I have picked up recently that I liked a lot
like I've seen them a lot of times and I think I've warmed in the past but the other day
I dropped my really good sunglasses that I bought from Lowe's again, their safety glasses,
they're like a brownish color and they have like the reflective, I like the ones that have
like that mirror coating or whatever so you can't see the eyes, you know what I mean?
So I typically wear those but they got scuffed and they cost roughly, I think I paid
about $16 for them.
That's expensive for me.
When I'm buying sunglasses, $16 is a lot of money for sunglasses but these I like them
a lot so I spent the money on them but typically I like to stay around $5 to $10 mark for
some sunglasses and they normally last a long time because I put them in a case when
I'm not wearing them.
I typically don't just sat them down around places but sometimes depending on what I'm doing
I'm usually like say you know leaning over something or whatever and I'll take my glasses
and hang them on my shirt like where your tie normally is and my glasses will be sort of
hanging on my shirt there across the top button and they'll fall and smack the ground
and scrape you know just happens every time and I got to get a new pair.
So while in Harbor Freight not that long ago I bought a pair of super cheap, I'm talking
about their super cheap like a dollar, maybe a dollar and 30 cents or something like that
but you know very cheap sunglasses that they have.
I don't know that they're polarized or anything like that but I know that I'm going to go
back there and get another couple pair because they actually work out to be pretty good even
though I don't think they're polarized they're still decent right for one dollar.
There's just some decent sunglasses that are also safety glasses right now they do look
kind of weird on you make you know when I wear mine I also wear my COVID mask I like
wear my COVID mask I look weird with a COVID mask on and these sunglasses right they kind
of have just an awkward look to them because just so cheap like you get what you pay for
with them but they're surprisingly good for a dollar I'll say that.
So yeah I'm going to go back and grab another pair of those and I also wear a pair of
yellows like first thing in the morning when it's still dark I wear yellow I'm always wearing
some kind of glasses so they're either my yellows first thing in the morning when it's still
really dark or if it's getting late I wear the yellows and in between there is sun shades
but all of my glasses are going to be safety I used to wear clear safety glasses that
are the squared ones and they work pretty good but in the transition period when the sun's
higher or whatever or at night when you're transitioning from day to night and every jerk
off out there wants to ride around with their high beams on the yellows mitigate a little
bit more of that bright light so it'll neutralize it into like a mild yellow except for like
car light headlights are just too intense these days they're LED so when somebody throws
those brights on you it's just too intense you can't neutralize that that that light it has
to be mitigated with something like shades or tent right you know so you're kind of screwed
with that but the yellows are still good for everything else they're pretty they're pretty
good.
Hello everyone future Scotty here and I just want to mention really quickly I went to
Walmart and I got a pair of arm sleeves that work they're all black they do have a logo
on them which I didn't want it's a small enough logo near the rest and I believe it's
known as Mick David great then of course the power inverter in my car would come on so
the Mick David sport arm sleeves their compression arm sleeves come in a pair so that's two arm
sleeves per pack for $19 I have a link down in the description I'm in any show notes from
Walmart I have the large slash extra large and this is my first day wearing them so I can't
really explain rather not they feel good or not you know I've only had them on now for
about I don't know 20 minutes and one of the things I noticed that's weird about this
brand that I have on I can see the hair from my arm poking through you know hair just
sort of springing through it so we'll see how long that holds up but it feels really good
it feels like that that yoga pants material that I was telling you about before and not
like a stalking pantyhose kind of a thing so I think they're going to work out but only
time will tell so that's the end of future Scotty and now it's time to end the show thank
you guys for listening I'll catch you in the next episode now apologize for the power inverter
just kicking on I had to plug my laptop back in and yeah it's kind of loud you have been
listening to Hacker Public Radio as Hacker Public Radio does work today's show was contributed
by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click on
our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for HBR has been kindly
provided by an onesthost.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on the Sadois status
today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
