Episode: 4196
Title: HPR4196: HPR Community News for August 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4196/hpr4196.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:15:04

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4196 from Monday the 2nd of September 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for August 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 82 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Ken and Dave Grumble about the state of the world and also about shows
released and comments posted in August 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio, the Community Podcast.
Bringing you Community News for August 2024.
Joining me today is...
Hello Dave Morris is here again.
Hello Dave, how are you over?
I'm good.
I'm pretty good.
I'm pretty good.
I keep forgetting to press this press to talk, but I feel brain cells are getting creaky.
Yes, I'm struggling with tech myself today on many fronts.
Okay folks, HPR is a Community Podcast, so we are a group of people who like podcasting
and like talking about tech and what we do is when we find something interesting to talk
about, we record a podcast and add it to the pool of shows and then we have a podcast
which very soon will be hidden 19 years of podcast, Dave, can you believe it?
That's amazing, isn't it?
18 years, 11 months and 10 days ago, so by the time you hear the next one, we will be
19 years young.
So yeah, old enough to drink in some places.
Yep, still two more years for the States.
Anyway, and this show is the Geneson's Closet where the people who help out with the HPR
put down their mobs and sit around over a coffee and talk about the shows and the goings
on on the community for the last month.
So traditionally you get the honor of introducing new hosts, can you do that, then Dave?
It's a particularly difficult name to do with this time, oh no, it's Bob, so Bob is
joined us.
Bob is a long time commenter and first time host.
Yeah, yeah, welcome on God Bob, that's fantastic.
So what we do is with the show, we want to give some positive feedback on the shows and
we also give you, we give you some feedback on the shows but also tell you anything that
we're doing in and around the community and read out stuff that's on the mailing list.
So let us speak about the first one which was a HPR 4171 for Thursday, the first of the
month and it was by myself and it was of the mic and the mob and it was a long, we discussed
a little bit last month and I think we, do we read any of the comments out or to be not?
I think we did not, the things we don't read will be in last month.
Oh, yeah, you're right, you're right, we did, I don't know if there were comments on
it at all at that point, I'm lost as far as that.
Yeah, I think we read out, let's assume that they'd come and stick and come in, we read
out the one from nightwise himself, so because I was already in the mailing list so therefore
we went through the show.
So it's a bit of a, it's a bit of a strange one because some other people have key takeaways
from it are people don't necessarily agree with what I'm saying but yeah, the funny thing
is I've just been, I've just been given some internal training and as a result we had
to do some of that stuff and I am the points that I mentioned in there, I'm more convinced
of them now than I was even at the time, so it's interesting, yeah, yeah, but as I say
I have a very important, I have a very privileged I guess view on the thing because of my work
not to say that my work is anyway related to this but yeah, that's read out the comments
and see where we stand.
So D&T says, good reflection of how the problem project is, the point about the listener
to contribute or convertivate being so small as well, but I'm obviously, it does
mean that the listenership plays no part, just turns out to be a relatively small part.
I do think that the volunteer project gains participation most by direct invitation and
that being my experience with small projects I've been involved with and I have been less
patient than you when people come up with their prescriptions for my project.
Okay, yeah, it's not my project, it's our project, so that's the thing, but no, D&T has
a point and that is what I'm trying to, you know, we don't ignore listeners yet, that's
why we're on this call, I mean, that's what I call, it's not a call, it's a show, I've
just been my day talking into you, but that's why we do the community news, that's why we
have the feedback at the end of the show, that's why we call out to listeners and every
single show guys come in, we're constantly talking to the listeners, but the return
on investment is not there, and that's what if nightwise is sane on one hand, we need
to look at HPR from a business from a marketing point of view, then I have to look at this
from an accounting point of view, it doesn't make sense for us to focus on listeners, it's
not, it's not, we don't get the return on investments that we do when we focus on
one-to-one conversations with people who are likely to bring in people, now if you don't
think, if you don't agree with the people that we're bringing in, because they're the
people we're talking with, fine, get off your boat, go to the people you want to see
on the network, convince them to record shows, it's very, very simple, we are not employees,
we are people chipping away at the call face, and there's only so much call face we can
chip away at, if I was in a knitting group, I would be talking to them about HPR and all
that, in fact, as I just said, I was away, I'm training, and I was handing out HPR cards,
and I was telling them about your set-alking grip, episode, which is where they, which is
where they think comes from, and I said, okay, company stuff you can't talk about, but
if it's generic sorts of stuff, then I'll try and put it out on HPR because it's generic,
equally guys, people listening to this, if you are in a book club or something, are you going
down, sewing with your kids, or you're in a gardening show, this is of interest, ask yourself,
is what I'm doing right now of interest hackers, have I spoken to somebody who has enlightened me,
would other people and HPR like to hear from that person, then get them involved, yeah,
it's easy peasy, learn and squeezey, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, yeah, I've certainly been involved
in doing that a bit, not as much as many others, but to know that at old camp or something,
you see somebody, and they're talking about interesting things, and you say, oh, we have this
podcast, and maybe, and yes, they say, yeah, that sounds great, I will submit some sure, it's,
sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't, but it's too chugging away, you know,
yeah, yeah, yeah, but I mean, the opening is pretty obvious, whether it achieves anything,
it's another thing, but yeah, the whole process of saying, here's somebody, and there's a slot,
so why don't you make sure to fill it please, and let's talk about the discord server,
because that's, that's the point that was brought up here, right, all the other suggestions that
have been made up until now, we have already, we're implementing, so we're either going,
we are going to update the website, that's the ticket open already for that, but every other item
that's been suggested, we're already doing, yeah, so what I need is people not to go,
all everything is crap with HPR, yeah, tell us what it is that we want to change, and if one of
those things is Ken and Dave are too old and crusty, they should be out of there, absolutely fine,
but if you want the project to continue on, you need to step up and post the shows, you need to
step up and do the stuff, yeah, yes, yes, yes, it's, oh yeah, it just makes me laugh, if somebody wants
you, yeah, I've said to you in the past, am I a bit too old and crusty again and you said, no,
no, you're good, you're good with words to that fact, so yeah, that makes me laugh here,
yeah, I don't, it's like, if you want a discord server, personally my feeling on it is,
we're all mastered on, we're the people who we're getting shows from people are mastered on,
but if you think discord is the place to go, set up a discord server, beyond there, do the support,
do the bash loop for, for something interesting, in something interesting, ask, ask them to do a show,
also beyond there, to tell them about the flag feed and redirect them to us, and make sure
that it's not stagnant, and make sure that somebody to support them for the next 10 years, because
we're hitting 19 years, yeah, so this is, this is then fine, make suggestions, oh, we have to do stuff,
but also step up to the place, yeah, yep, probably shouldn't be putting this up, but you know what,
I'm a little bit sick of it to be honest with you, anyway, Herman, Henrik, you want to do what
Alex said? Yeah, I'll do that one, yep, so Henry Hemmied says, learned more about what HBR is,
Thanks Ken for this show with explanations, facts and thoughts about HPR, there's relatively
new listener and contributor, he reverbs this episode, HPR 4129, it was useful for me to better
understand HPR, regarding the web, HPR site, my usage of that is, I first had heard about HPR,
then looked up what it is, with assistance of the website, possibly listened to some episodes
at the start and going back in time, reading details carefully before submitting my first show,
check some incoming shows, submit links to specific shows in email, chat and social media,
be helpful for me, if all menu items are always available, now menu items depend on which page I am at.
Yeah, and I have two responses, so my response to DNT, thanks for the response, and yes,
of course, we spend a lot of time trying to get our listeners, I'm tempted to refer them as learners,
to contribute, we have, is at the end of every show today's show is contributed by HPR,
listener like yourself, if you're ever thought of recording a podcast, take on the
contributing link to see how easy it really is, for those who listen to the show,
meta-references for the community news, where this is read out, we'll know how much time we
spend asking people to send in shows, and I also replied to Hendrix in, thanks for the
suggestion about the website, yes, I can see how that will be in frustrating, and we should be
able to fix it, yeah, so this is feedback, we can do something with it, yeah, we need to do
this, we need to change the direction of HPR, we need to be young and vibrant of whatever, yeah,
it doesn't matter, whoever we get onto the HPR now in 20 years is going to be old and gray,
yeah, that's what happens, indeed, indeed, yeah, did you stress today Dave,
not have left for 20 hours of duty? Yeah, yeah, absolutely, comment number six is from
March of 72, who's referring to the show, and he says, I agree, we've got Hendrix Hemrin commented,
I did learn a lot about HPR and the expectations, but listen to the listener to host ratio
with staggering, I was a listener for a while before becoming a host, so I'm part of the
slim statistic, in Ken's words, you are the exception that proves the rule, I don't quite remember
when I found out about HPR, I'm possibly around 2008, I was looking for podcasts and new
Linux user and thinking HPR was one of them, Linux Outlaws was the other that comes to mind,
my first show was around 15th of December 2015, which was too short, but at least it was a start,
yeah, exactly, yeah, and guys it's about subscribers, there's a difference between listeners and
subscribers, so we have that number of subscribers of on, but each of is not listened to by all of
those guys, yeah, so let's be careful here on numbers, I mean, in the industry they have no problem,
the number I gave is super conservative, the pump that out, pump that up and out, no problem,
okay, let's get off this one because it's stressing me out, Dave,
next one, what's in my bag, this time it's personal, by operator, and I had planned to go in there
and pick out everything that he had in his new bag, so now I'll just go to the transcript and have a look.
Yeah, yeah, I made a few notes where I was fascinated that he was talking about
phones and earbuds and the two things that caused me, I mean, just bought a nice new pair of earbuds
and discovered the first time that I have ears that don't, don't like earbuds and spit them out
especially when I'm doing the washing up and they go plop and clean their waterproof,
but so they have that, yeah, yeah, yeah, to glue them in or something,
but he carries deodorant with them, that's a mandatory for all IT guys,
yeah, yeah, it was a good review of the privacy of one's bag and so this, fascinating.
And the following day, so there was no other comments on that, we were coming to the end of the
vacation period so we can expect activity to be picking up again, I hope, we had the community
news and there was no comments on it and then we had 3D blender tutorial number one, oh my god,
was this a cool show or what, and Delta Ray posted in, if you're looking to share your
renders, mastodon users can reply to the post link in there and twitter can reply to the post link
in there, you do Henrik? Yes, and he says, I like the audio tutorial concept, I like this concept
of audio tutorial while I follow on the screen, it's my first ever trial with blender, yes, I
did need to pause and rewind multiple times, I admit, at the late latter part I was too foggy myself,
so he only listened how to create fog etc, I think I should start over from scratch again,
repeat the tutorial another day to understand better, but I definitely got a first impression
of blender thanks to your tutorial, so yeah, and I agree with that, I haven't actually followed
it with blender, but it sounded like there was some amazing content in there that would be very
useful and helpful to guide you along the way, which is a brilliant idea,
I was not looking forward to it because blender, the thought of it sends shivers down my spine,
and the amount of stuff, the only thing I'd say Delta Re is, the amount of stuff you covered in
the first episode was a lot, I needed to do it in three sessions, but and I was like rewinding
and fast forward and rewinding and fast forwarding, so I hope somebody does, if I was to do it again,
I would love to do a screenshot of this, if somebody could please just do a screen recording
of this as well that we can, as you go in the lamp, that would be fantastic that we would have
that together, because I know myself that the versions will change, but the directions were
excellent, there was only one place where I went wrong and I had to go back, and if we wasn't
mentioned to click to another tab, but other than that, it was excellent, but of course mine looks
what it looks like, the toxic matrix versus the cool ones. Yeah, yeah, I have dabbled with it,
people were learning to make 3D models so you can put on a 3D printer, one time I was following
some of them, but I didn't, and you can do some amazing things with it, but back on
it, you have to work hard to get to that state. To be honest, I didn't think in one episode we
would get this far to having something 3D with lights and all sorts of things, very good.
Something else that was impressive, massive galaxies and mass extensions Dave.
Yeah, yeah, this is me just gathering odds and stuff. This is just Dave's mind here, guys,
going from galaxies and max extensions to ML or ML,
plan and friends cooking. What made me know me build lands? My Bohemian is a guy called
Heinrich Maibom. Yes, yes. I do like this today I learned a series because it's like
just thrown in your pocket and when you got a few of them, chuck them out.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't know about you, but I'm reading social media, Wikipedia, etc, etc.
And all that's really interesting. I must go and look further into that and make a note of it
somewhere other. Don't always do it, but this is making me do a better job of following up,
because it's so much out there that's fascinating and amazing. Yeah, good stuff.
And the new year show, lots of links, lots and lots of links.
And the orange pie, I just came back, as I said, I was on training in India. I didn't see it
was in India, but I wasn't in India. And there's a link there to the Raspberry Pi and the orange
pie. So I have a call for the community, right? It was a bit of an eye-opener to me that the cost
of Raspberry Pi's are essentially equivalent there to buying a new laptop. And people don't have
old laptops because they pass on their laptops down the chain, yeah. So the idea of like chucking
a few Raspberry Pi's together and building up a test metric isn't something that you can do
very easy. So I was wondering if people could help me with coming up with or pointing me to
single board computers that have ideally an ethernet cable in them. I was thinking Raspberry
Pi W's, but you don't get there for networking, you don't get the feeling of plugging in a
network cable. And it was also looking at GLI nets stuff. But it's all kind of expensive,
but if anyone has ideas of, they don't have to be powerful Linux computers like a Raspberry Pi
one or something, but you know, cheap, cheap, cheap, cheap. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I appreciate it there.
There was such a, such a golf in, in pricing. Yeah, and I know we had a, we had a listener on here
at one stage who didn't have a microphone in their laptop and stuff and couldn't record and
stuff. And I could completely see how that's a, how that would be an issue for them.
And it's a huge eye opener for me, with regards to, it actually supports the statement that
that we had about the low bit rate, while the data plans and phone bundles seem to abound.
So that everybody seems to have a mobile phone and unlimited 5G, so not everybody, but,
yeah, there's quite a lot of forms around all the payments are done by form.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe I should do an episode on that, but I don't know how much I'd be allowed
to either. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, okay, fair enough. But it is an interesting subject. The whole
business of using a phone paper, everything from every, every tiny amount to, to, to modulate
certain amounts is, it's very, very different from the way things operate here.
But the, yeah, the cool thing is you have a, so Google Play and all their other services,
you have a, every vendor has like a QR code, and then they have an app running as a vendor app,
and then they type in the amount, and you scan the QR code, and then your banking app,
you type in the, the amount it is, and you press OK, and then you show the vendor your confirmation,
and then they get a confirmation on their site. So pretty much everybody has that.
Yeah, that's a bad idea. But the point is, cheap, really cheap computing case thoughts and ideas,
guys, thoughts and ideas. Yeah, yeah, okay. Next day. Yeah, intro to science fiction series by
Ahuka. I love seeing this coming in because it has my favorite word series in there. And when
Ahuka says series, Ahuka means series. Yeah, that is very, very true. Yes.
I just, I was, I was completely stunned by this. It's, it's, it's absolutely brilliant.
Well, wait a start. It's an excellent introduction. And, you know, covering all the,
all the sort of dimensions of the, of the subject, which is vast, and, and all the links are
absolutely fantastic. There's some, many of those are, I've also been a sci-fi nut from a young age,
but there's, there's, there's a fair number here that I don't really know about, fair number I do.
But, yeah, it's, it's fantastic. Do you know, I, I'd hope people say wreck on many, many times.
I didn't know what it meant. Ahuka, it's funny, isn't it? Well, that's how we have shores.
Don't you know, we're teaching, we're learning from one another. It's amazing. I like, I really like
the idea of, we don't have, if you're a listener, I'm not interested in you, but if you're a learner,
now I mean, I'll change my mind about, you know, if, if you're telling us we have learners on the
other end, then I'll change my mind about, it's not important. You know, we're not entertainment,
we're educating. I think, well, I think you might do, yeah, maybe swim and don't the shores of
France are, but then again, that was education too. Faults. Okay, three says, downtown Buffalo Library.
Thank you, ahuka, I am looking forward to this series. I'm also a huge sci-fi and fantasy fan. I
had forgotten all about the dragon riders or perenn series and maybe read it soon. I also grew up
in Western New York. My first introduction to science fiction was on a day as a young child.
I was home from school sick and we had to take a father, my father, to Buffalo General Hospitals
for tests. I turned up, it turned into an all day event and I was sitting in the raging room
when I discovered that the hospital was having a used book fair. I went and picked out a book,
Danny Don and the anti-gravity paint. I had no money and the cashier gave me the book for free.
The book drew me in and I was hooked on science fiction. I also remember trips to the Buffalo
Downtown Library as a teenager. I would take the city bus downtown to the library to work on
the research projects and I would always return home with a new science fiction book as a bonus
from the trip. Thank you for helping me stretch out these memories. That's really good. I like
this sort of memory. Kevin O'Brien says, thank you, Trey. I'm glad my own memories help to bring
back some of yours as the saying has it the golden age of science fiction is 14. Yep.
And David Lee, the blog says, great series. Thank you, Ahuka. I look forward to listening to your
episodes on this. This has actually given me some ideas for episodes so I can see me contributing
a series, particularly to this series, particularly as there are some items on your list that convince
that can coincide with my own interests plus a few that don't. I may concentrate on the ones that
don't first. I think that message is hidden in those sentences there. It's where I read it.
Kevin O'Brien says, just what I hope for. Thanks, David. Encouraging others. Just submit
shows. Just what I hope for. And field is so big that there's room for a lot of voices.
Trolocoster says, a small recommendation and thanks. Hi, Ahuka. Thanks for this interesting
introduction. Certainly looking forward to the next episode. I just point into an interview with
George or Martin. You might appreciate and link to the YouTube page. Cool. Aaron B says, interesting
list sci-fi. Here's a nice flowchart for sci-fi and fantasy and he gives a link to an Ahuka.org
NPR flowchart and you see that. That list, how many can you check off? I took a speed reading class
in high school and to keep my attention, I read many of the classic sci-fives. When I read the Lord
of the Rings series, I quit reading for over 25 years. I felt that I'd wasted a lot of time.
Now I read Daniel Suarez, demon, great techno thriller. He got me back into reading again.
I read a couple more of the classics than I started to read. The Silver Ship series.
Soap halfway through the fifth. Got tired with the savior character like June. Oh, I like June.
I'm not sure how to read that. Anyway, like as in the same as all I've seen. Thank you. I enjoy it.
And I too had a look on that, but I think he's missing one of my favorite science fiction authors,
which would be David Collins Rivera. It has a fantastic universe and I'm actively waiting for
the second volume of his latest series. So yes, that's cool. And the next day we had
Bob's first episode downloading out of copyright movies, used in the tour proxy with YouTube,
DL to get public domain movies. And it's nice to see he's using visas, suggestion.
And using Piper, voice census from Archer 72. Good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was good.
Just recently got that working. So good to see. Yeah, I didn't know to myself that the voice
was really good and clear and understood pretty much all of it. It was a good solution to
not being all that keen about reading the stuff out yourself, but yeah. And I also got me,
I've never used YT, DLP, because I've never really needed to download stuff. I had a
week play with it and wow, it's really quick. I can't remember what preceded it, but they were
really slow and clunky. Things I've used way back in the day. But this one, this is really good,
I'm doing it. So yeah, thank you for opening my eyes to this one.
Cool. So Windigo says, alternative sites, thanks for the episode and the excellent technique.
It's also working worth checking out archive.org first for any copy,
out of copyright or public domain's works. It's selection made me limited, but it overall
easy download options, which it does. Good, very good point when you go.
Thank you. Next one. Next one. Somebody replaced the batteries in the Kenwood T-S-940S HF radio part
one. Will they succeed or not? That is the question. Tune in to the series and see.
Yeah, yeah, I know. This is fun. Wow, an impressive looking machine it is.
Yeah, I'd you could really feel like, ah, plump. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
losing some fingers as he turns it over. Two, almost a two-man lift, that one.
Yeah. That's a size and clunkiness. Hey. Do you want to do Trez?
Come on. Yeah, yeah, sorry, I was just scrolling down. I scroll, scrollability is slow.
Trez says, thanks, thank you for the reminder. Thank you for sharing this. I've had my extra
class license for many years. Despite having collected several HF radios,
shut up, see go. I must confess that I've never operated on HF only six meters, two meters,
and 70 centimeters FM, back to radios. I first, I think we should rig is an i-com 735, which I believe
is similar vintage to your Kenwood. I'm sure got me thinking it turns out my radio also has a
battery, which I hope and pray is not leaking all over the radio. Now I have another project.
Thank you for sharing. Oh, if we could just get people to record their fixes like Mr.
X did, we'd all be sorted. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's very good. I've been quite impressed with the
and I love these pictures too. I'm a great fan of shows and pictures. Yeah, although it caused me
a certain degree of pain, but yeah, they make the thing really, really good. A lot more detail.
Cool. The next day we had lots in Kevin's holiday bag and he went down through a list of stuff
headphones and that was good. It was definitely a vacation or a holiday holiday bag.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Again, it's another interesting insight into how people's lives and holidays and
whatever work environments control what they do. I actually use this list when I was packing for
India. I asked you as well because I'd never been on tour. I've been to the States and South
Africa and Algeria actually, but never been to somewhere else. Yeah, so I load stuff with me and
ended up not using half of it, but I'm fighting to this. But you never know. It depends on
what sort of environment you're in. I've been to places where you're sort of sleeping in a
hut. Yeah, just because it's convenient to be in a hut because you're going to some volcano
or other, you know, but when you're doing that sort of thing, you probably need a whole different
set of stuff to keep you protected from the mosquitoes or whatever else is going on.
So the next day we had using GK-REL MWGET an image magic for a live show. Now this is about
getting webcams for British Columbia, but it could equally be adapted to other situations
where you want to take images from various different things and just have them on your screen.
Oh, really nice idea. Yeah, yeah. I like the printable of this. You can see what the state
of the local eyeways and yeah, it could be the weather and all manner of other things as well.
Yeah, I would be fascinated to do that type of stuff. That name always throws me. What was it
mean? GK-REL MWGET. Did you hear REL MWGET? GK-REL MWGET. I read it as another
Krell from that sci-fi film. I've forgotten what his name is now. But yeah, yeah, I think,
oh, it's something to do with it. No, it's nothing to do with the Krell. Anyway, it's good.
No, it's fascinating. Okay, there are two comments. The first one is by George. PNG. Hi.
It looks cool, but I cannot guess where you do what you make the APNG file that you use
later. All the best, George. And Jim Log says, RepNG. Hi, it took me a second to wonder,
what PNG? But I'd taken the screenshot using KDE's spectacle, the Dolphin file manager,
displaying large icons. Spectacles to pop-up are former in PNG. Sorry about that. Never
code to me. That would be confusing. The image of the thumbnail, which are all JPG and image of GK-REL MWGET.
Stack. I've all done using Spectacle and not included in the segment at all.
Thank you for pointing that out to folks. Cool, cool, cool, cool. Move it on. Archiving,
BCR, or any other RCA media, Benoit. Again, it was one of my backlog of summer shows,
while everybody else is not doing anything. Can you do triggers, comment? Yeah,
basically you plug in this MIDI stuff, or you plug in this MIDI converter, and then you just
basically record the string. That's it. Yeah, that was fascinating. I have tapes that I want to do
that too, but never occurred to me to do what you did. Anyway, Twixer says, some issues with your
capture methodology. If you captured PAL at 720 by 480, 30 FPS, you've done it wrong. Those are
NTSC standards. Your capture hardware and software should have provided an option to capture at 720
times 576 at 25 FPS. Didn't notice anything regarding handling the interlacing, or proper viewing
of PAL material you want to de-interlace to 50p or 50 FPS, which is the FFM big
MPEG filter EW diff can do very well. To which I respond, hi, Twixer. You are correct,
but the whole point of these devices is that they are Mars produced to do all that for you.
You don't need to configure anything. What you get out is JMPag 1080p 30 FPS per second,
so 720p 80 is scaling the output of the MPEG 1080 down, is scaling the output MPEG 1080 down,
not the source file itself, and to see why I point you to the technology connections video about it.
And the whole thing there was that he was doing these conversion things and FFM Peggy and
setting standards and worrying about de-interlacing, and then he plugged in a TV and it just
upscaled automatically even better. And then it turns out that their mass produced chips on the
market to deal with all this sort of stuff. It's all built in, it's all done in hardware,
and then they've taken those chips and put them into these little devices. So it's the same chip
that's in your big TV that does upscaling is the chips that are in this thing. So you throw
anything at us and you get a good picture of it. So no more messing or worrying about
all the crap that you do need to do for NTSC and PAL and PALI and PALF and PAL.
God knows what. And is it recorded or not? So just plug it into this and it works.
Cool, very cool. I might be sure to emphasize that a little bit more at the beginning of the
episode what I was trying to do. Okay, Trouler Coaster talks about software freedom day and HPR,
introduces who he is, blah, blah, blah, and software freedom day. Big thing to take on,
big thing to take on the responsible for our projects, something like software freedom day,
especially. So good look with that. Yeah, it's quite a challenge, I would think. It's impressive.
It's something I would, if I had the time and stuff, I would help somebody else too, but
no way would I initiate the thing myself, I think, but it's just too much. But yeah, it needs to be
done. No doubt about it. Yeah, no doubt about it. And great stuff. Yeah, and there's more
shows coming up as well. So let's move on. The goal card game, which was a card game for,
for basically walks through how to play this card game. And it's kind of funny because I was,
we have it here in the Netherlands and it is a fun game to play, but we don't say the,
what was the word goalfish at the end. So it's kind of cool. Yeah, I'd heard of it. I've never played
Amo a great one for card games, but yeah, it sounded really interesting,
quite an interesting design, a fascinating way to construct a game, but I better be enormously
frustrating if you were somebody who got annoyed, but you got, oh yeah, I'm doing, oh no,
and then you'd, yeah, but you don't have to feel that way. It was our message, because you can still
win. I find quite fascinating design. That's pretty good. And Devley says, not play this many years,
I might have to introduce this game to the kids. I think they'll enjoy it. Thanks for this.
Okay, so the following day we had a Archer 72 response to Ken's comment on HPR 417
with hopefully enough detail. And yes, it was enough detail. Thank you very much, Archer 72.
Proving, of course, the point that I think it'd be an episode. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's too long
for a comment, and it's a show. Yep. And Devley, the love bug says, Bryce T-Shat,
this is the, this is a report in fact that the Bryce voice that is, sounds, has got sort of
the way it, it, it, it praises stuff. It's, well, he says it. You're talking about this.
Let me read it. The Bryce voice almost perfectly imitate the intonation.
We're in chat now, but not the voice. Maybe smart, but then I love Star Trek.
The original series. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I don't know the vocal hardcore, the original series.
But yeah, yeah, it's, yeah, it was more the rhythm of the voice I thought was there. Was it,
was the point with it? No, did I miss out? Yeah, it was the way he talks like this. Yeah, yeah,
strange, strange sort of stuttering like, um, approach to it, but yeah, but I like the way,
sorry, go ahead or no, no, I like that voice is all this. I like the way he used different voices
in the, uh, as a, as a editorial thing within the show. Yeah. Yeah. It's a, it's a good idea. You
know, when he was reading out, they, one thing, when he was reading out in his own voice,
air quotes, he was doing a one man, and then when he was commenting, he, uh, he used another voice.
Very good. Oh, I like it. Yeah, that's good. That's a good stuff. I would be a bit concerned if the
whole HPR turns into a text to speech we've had two of them this month, but let's see how it goes.
Let's worry about it a little bit more. It's, yeah, I'm fine, fine with it. There's,
the people have reasons to do it. That's fine. Boss, uh, to one people, like, making a
bash script and scraping Wikipedia. Oh, well, you give me an idea. Oh, yeah.
Any of, uh, episode six of the New Year's show was out. Uh, let's see, LibraVox,
has your gaming podcast, pool, Steam Deck, Google Lens, loads of stuff. Yep. Okay. No comments on
that one, though. And civilization part four, we look at our next game in civilization franchise,
and there's no, uh, no feedback on that. Although I did, uh, I hope you were saying that there's a new,
there's the next version of civilization is coming out. So the series may not be at an end after all.
No, no, I misunderstood him. He, he, when he was saying this is the large show,
he meant of that, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I was thinking, oh, it's the end. Oh, that's a shame.
And then this one probably, yeah, it's, uh, it's by saying the, the way this thing is evolving,
it's, uh, it's not really evolving, but it is, is, is growing, you know, in a directed,
directed way. But it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's, must be appealing to, to people as these,
is it grows and becomes more complex in all these different directions?
Cool. Um, RKVM software, this is keyboard video mouse sharing. So, um, with the, with the
dawn of weland, a lot of the tools that were hacking the X servers no longer work. So this is one that
does work RKVM. And, uh, yeah, uh, I don't know if I have enough, uh, it only works on Linux at the
moment. So, uh, but it's good to have that in your back pockets if you actually need it. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. No, it's, it's, uh, my days, if you're using such things as a long gone, um, it was using
the server room to stand it amongst the racks and control things on, yeah, the racks that have
the door shut and whatever. Um, but, uh, it, it, yeah, it's not a thing I use in that in my house,
much forever. Um, but, uh, you know, you never know. Do you know how you've found out this week
that there are a lot of people who have never been in the data center. We've never racked,
racked a server, never seen any of that. Yeah. Interesting. When we were building hours, we used to,
yeah, she got a request from the local, went the local, um, uh, just some at ease.
Could we come and have a look at your computer room? I don't know if they were impressed. I mean,
there was all sort of big, wushy things in cabinets and locks and locks of aircon and, yeah,
to change floors with holes in it and all that stuff. And, uh, yeah. So they seem to be interested.
They, they went away with smiles on their faces, but, uh, yeah, they're, they're, they're,
they're pretty interesting places. Yeah. I think I do, I do as all just, yeah, somebody was
nookin. They would never have done that. They were racking and stacking servers. Ah, go on.
Okay, you know, that feeling we're gone. Okay, fine. You coughing have not done your time,
cough, cough. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. The big, dull servers that we, we had, we needed two people to
lift them and put them on the rails and stuff. And, you know, cut your, yeah, suck it. Oh,
a hundred days, dude. A couple of bits inside the cabinets. I think this conversation proves that
we are old and crusty. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm stupid for your sight, but, but,
the approach, I spent a lot of time at one point, um, going, oh, me and my team did, but I did
quite a lot of it going under the floor, not, not physically, but if you're not the floor and
finding that the people had laid, ethernet cables across the room and they'd all got tangled,
they were talking spectacular knots. Don't stop. Just to untangle them. Bye, goodness.
Under my house, I, I asked for a structure cabling in my house and I can't talk about it still.
Okay, moving on. Next day, replacing backup batteries for the Ken Road part due and the saga
continues, including ordering the wrong batteries, but, uh, ongoing fix, and all sorts of stuff.
Ah, it's a series. It's actually, it's quite good. It's an interesting, uh, interesting
adjustments that you made. And, uh, yeah, I know. And, uh, I have a radio, uh, a friend of mine in
work has got a, uh, radio for me from a friend of his. And he's not going to give it to me
and he's not going to pay the other guy until he's gone through and, you know, tuned and fixed
everything. And I'm going, if this is the amount of work that's involved in changing the battery,
he's going to go and check all the, all the filters and all the, uh, readings and everything else.
So, I, uh, I may have to get a nice good bottle of, uh, of his favorite whiskey.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is an on-trivial exercise. But, uh, yeah, I did, I was chatting to, to
ministrics. I said, if you've not got a head torch, how come you're not, because that, whenever I'm
in computers, I've always put one of these reasonably powerful pictures on, because I can't see
a thing. Why am I, is this so, so my eyes would be my cannot see, um, thing, yeah, yeah. I like the
torch balanced with the screwdriver. That's, that's pretty good. Yeah. So, Dave, the following day,
uh, and this is still, uh, that would show you the 28th, uh, why I happened recorded a HPR
episode, a meta, episode on how to record a HPR using audio, audio, audio, or phonic edit.
Which is a audio, uh, editor recorder for Android, which is good because I need a good, uh,
recording tool to be brutally honest with it. And, phonic, which is my last, because the last
barrier, if somebody sends in the show, and I know there's a room out there that we'll accept
anything. Yes, we will, but we also go to a lot of trouble to have the whole sending good shows.
And, uh, if it's not possible, we will try running stuff through audio, phonic to see if they can
clear it up. And they're usually, usually very, very good. Uh, sometimes even, even dollars shows
can't be, uh, rescued. And, you know, there's nothing to it, but ask the host to rerecord it.
Yeah. But, good show. Good show. Thank you. Thank you, Dave. Uh, I quite like shows with a bit of
ambient noise as well as something special about them. I think, you know, you can feel, oh, yeah,
I can visualize. Obviously you can't. It's quite nice to imagine. Oh, yeah. Where Dave's going
and what you're doing. Yeah. Good stuff. Uh, moving on. Get more user space from your system,
a tune to FS. This is, uh, this is a little tip from Delta ray again, um, where 10% is reserved
for the root file system, you know, the root user, in case something goes wrong with the system
is filling up, then, uh, the root user has still a space to create log files and log in and fix it.
So, uh, but with our huge turbine drives, the amount 10% is, is kind of overkill for
what, what is needed. So, this is a good way to rescue some additional just space. Good
to have in your back pocket. Absolutely. Actually, I've been in the situation where the disk is full
because, you know, something going on. Well, yeah, exactly. But, uh, but yeah, I'm not necessarily
these sorts of power systems, but nevertheless, the principle is a good one. Good to know.
And that's the end of the set shows for the month, but it's not going to the episode.
Because hang on, hang on, is that the last one? Because I'm putting to my chart. Oh,
oh, yeah, we have tomorrow 95 is, is, uh, is the last one this month, the worst tomorrow.
We've, we've let go of the, of the fact for recording this a day early. And, yeah,
this one is social engineering, more contributions to HBR by picking when you publish your show.
And, uh, so in this show, can experience where we're competing with other players and
entertainment industry. We have no control of our spy chain and rely on our hosts to consider
scheduling guidelines when uploading their show. And here are the scheduling guidelines. And I
got feedback as well. Uh, on this one, uh, privately that we should have these more prominent.
And indeed, I thought we did, but we actually don't, uh, but this is a thing that we tried before
to codify. Dave, remember, we had a community, um, on the mail on this. And at the time, the decision
was taken not to force, enforce these rules. Um, and yeah, basically the reason was,
you know, freedom, freedom. Um, but in actual fact, I, I do think the, when people schedule
according to these rules, it does encourage more contributions. And that's not just, uh, rhetorical.
It's, it's, uh, I think we could get the evidence to prove that if we, if we wanted to. But how do
you feel about it? Do you, you know, when you're looking at the queue and it's kind of filling up
according to the rules? Well, as, as a janitor, then you just think, well, it's filling up and it's
a, some extent, as long as people are not putting in sort of two or three of their own shows in
one after the other, which, you know, it's a tends to, tends to be a little bit against the,
the, the general consensus. Um, well, no, the general consensus is that everybody can put
any shows wherever they want. That's the whole point. And we, janitors happen to not agree with that.
I don't know what happened. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Your memory of it is better than mine, because I,
I felt that the, the, the world at large was not keen on having shows too closely together,
because we think like the positive shows you take up the entire week for, and I don't know how popular
that was. Yeah. Well, that's, that's true. That's true as well. But the, if you're a community
specifically on the mailing list in London. So there you go. Okay. Okay. So you have what we get
a feedback from the listeners or learners or whoever. And then we have what they, uh, what the
holes on the mailing list say, and we are janitors and we implement what's on the holes. But also
we're janitors, uh, who are running the network and have a fairly good understanding that if you
put four shows after each other on the same topic, in some cases, that's absolutely fine because
that's what's required at that, for that particular use case at that particular time. But by and
large, the rules are there, are there the guidelines are there, uh, for a reason that do help and
encourage shows for listen to the show itself to get an idea of, well, actually, I've got full show
and this again goes back to looking at HBO from the point of view of the business. Yeah. So
you look at it from point of view marketing and we looked at it from the point of view of, of
finance, but this is essentially, uh, the business that we're in and how you feed the queue, uh,
what control of our supply chain has and that's core and fundamental to any business. Uh, what is
it that you produce and produce and podcast? Where do we get them from? Random people on the internet.
We have no control on and how they come in and all and stuff. So yeah. Uh, so the only thing we,
the only thing we can do is encourage people to use the schedule and guidelines. So that's,
that is it. But I was thinking about that day, actually, and even though
I'm since that I've been wanting to put in the schedule and guidelines, but since then,
there are reasons why people would put in two shows more often than one every 10 days,
which I did myself, uh, not this month, but last month, last month, last month. And, uh,
that was because I had two shows scheduled 10 days apart, right? And then there was an interview
about our camp. So it was important to get that out. So that blew that rule out of the water. Yeah.
So there are reasons to do it. Yeah, yeah. That makes sense. I mean, had it been discussed with
the community, I'm sure they were going to have all voted for doing exactly that, but because I know,
but that was, uh, it was a, uh, a history schedule show and I wanted to reserve the site and I did
and I posted the show, I violated the rule. Yeah. Uh, well, guidelines, which is why it's a guideline.
But, you know, the guidelines also do say post interviews first. So, you know, it's in there.
Um, but what we could do with the redesign is offer people the opportunity to go to, you know,
like a big button went to schedule, right? And then, um, and the upload process in order to answer
all these questions about they, um, about they went to fill it in and, and so we don't want too many
from the same host and we don't want too many from the same, in the same series. So therefore,
in order to be able to do this calculation, we would need to know what the host idea is. So,
if they put in their email address and the series number, which would be a drop down list.
Um, so if they put that in, we could then, um, help me schedule my show basically press a button
and they could then, we could then send back an email with the options and why we picked that.
So that is something we could do. I don't know what people will think of that. So, you know,
uh, maybe is it timeless? Yes or no? You know, is there anything, is it an interview? Yes or no?
Blah blah blah. So ask a few, ask a few simple questions on us. Uh, what's the host? And then we could,
uh, we could then pick, pick the time for you. Yeah. Just going to be done programmatically if
people were, were willing to do that. Is that it then Dave? Can I stop talking about shows?
Did I think we can stop talking about shows? Yes, we've got comments to look at, but otherwise,
we're good. Okay. So, you're still with me? I'm still here. Yes. Uh, did you respond to your
episode? I did. I did. I did. Do you want to read all of those? Yep. And I'm in, well, let me read it
and that says what I was going to say. I'm deeply into project to restore all external files or
assets to HPR shows where they were lost in the server migration in 2023. This is me applying to
a, uh, show from 2016, uh, setting up my Raspberry Pi 3. And, uh, so continuing with the comment,
I just did this show, which is 2023 and reread the comments. Now, the Pi in question, I'd called
RPI 5. I'm not very good at names. Um, and died during the pandemic in around 2031 or 2022.
What failed? Well, the SSD did. The SD card is, it's fine. It seemed to be good,
as far as I can make up. Not really used it much since then, but it wasn't dead. And Quett, and
Beesard asked a question about why am I using an SSD? And, um, I said, well, it's probably more
reliable. So I thought I should come clean and say, you know, I took this up, this pi up as a
critical element in my home lab, but not noticed the backups haven't been working for a while. So
when it, when it blew up, that was quite a lot of work went down, down the toilet. So, oh man.
And I since learned that the quality of these media has a strong bearing on their lifetime.
And this SSD was probably one of Amazon's cheapies at the time. So, you know, an important lesson
was learned there, which is where I thought I'd share it. And also, she could point and go,
anyway, but it's, it's also cool. This project has been going on so long that you can go back
and comment on this, you know? Yeah, yeah. I won't be doing it very often. As I go through these
old issues. So, um, Archers 72 had a ham radio testing study and testing for the AOR or
Al American radio relay league, I think, for ham licenses. And Dave Lee, who is also a fellow amateur
radio operator, only got round to listen to this one, probably a bit late to offer congratulations,
but you have them anyway. I got my tickets in April 2021 at first level foundation in the UK.
It's been a wild ride and I learned so much in the last three and a half years. I'd love to hear
more on HPR about your journey into amateur radio. I did a podcast back in 2021 that you might
appreciate. If you haven't heard it, just ask your three, four, seven, three, seven, three,
D-E, Dave, M7, Tango, Limo, Bravo. They'll look out.
We have a comment two, four or three, six, which is the till diverse from
Odin Miranda, Dave Lee, again, saying raw text. He said, I joined the till diverse, a while
black, a while back on rawtext.club. It was a very small and intimate server. The till diverse
is a great way to get involved in the community and you get to meet some interesting people too.
Very good. Very good. Don't worry. I had to show powers of two. A story about the discussion
around knowing the powers of two can be useful. Mandiga says,
nice show and interesting hearing some of the applications or limitations. I share a similar
interest which grew mostly from seeing VGA versus EGA versus CGA on old dust games.
I-I-R-C, it was two, six, two, one, four, four, two, three, seven, six, eight, and four,
oh, nine, six, two to the power six, two to the power five, and two to the power four,
per channel, CGA implementations using RGBI. And if none of that makes any sense to you,
you need to go back and listen to 40 and 96. Yeah, yeah. Yes, it's funny how fascinating these
numbers can be. Yeah, exactly. I'm not really numerous, but I do find these things quite fascinating.
I so, I think today we're just on Macedon, actually, right before the show,
where WhatsApp has increased the group number to 256. So there we go.
Yeah, that's a good number. So we have a comment on not least specific though. Yes,
Cedric De Bruy show 4135, mining the web. We have a comment from a reply from Cedric himself.
In some times, since I posted this, and I hadn't noticed these comments before,
he'd had a few comments on this show. Norris says, he is saying to Norris, I would see
to make a follow up this month and get a bit deeper into how the stuff was built.
It was quite an innovative way of doing what he was doing. Henrik Hemmerin, thanks for your
support. And to Hobbes, there are a number of alternatives available for this. Most famous is
probably DNS enum in UM, which also gets shipped with Cali Linux. Go, go, go, go. And Badger 2040,
like Kevin says, Kevin discusses experience with Badger 2040 from Pymori. And Ken von says,
I am weak for I have so come to the temptation to have a custom badge at Spectrum 24 and I'll count.
Can you hear that? Can you hear that folks? There it is. There it is. Finally, oh my god,
trying to get it from you. Trying to get anything for Brexit landslabs. Oh, it's a pain in the
boutox. Yeah, yeah. Like they fill in a form and go back and forth and it was stuck somewhere
and it would be shipped today and then it won't be. It was a pain. I had hope to have it
for my trip to India because that will be cool. But didn't manage. I just broke business cards.
So cool, cool, cool. That's the that's the common search of the way mailing this discussions was
trying. The entire audio archive is broken. Sorry, if it comes to you thrice, I've only just joined
the mailing list and I'm not sure the first attempt posting was successful. My pipe catcher is
subscribed to the entire audio feed. I was not able to update since the 19th of July and gives
the results about parsing her to which Todd helpful to which Todd pointed out the one that was
causing the issue, which is a seed data. And I said thanks Todd for the help. This is the known
issues all but ready repaired prior to release. We're trying to identify what it is reoccurring.
So it doesn't happen again. We picked this up a mic and I want one to keep the traffic down on
the list and we opened bug issue number 50 to track it. Anyone wanting to follow along can do so
over there. And the feed is now working. Yeah, I don't know how I say thanks. Yeah, still
no one appeared. No, I don't know. Did we do? Did we put stuff into us into a show notes that
hadn't gone through the normal channels? No, no, we because we have this bug.
Remember, it took me ages to figure out what it was. We fixed it and put it back into the database.
I'm really, really suspicious of the database. It seems to be. Yeah, I think it seems to be restoring
stuff. Yeah, it seems to be going back in time by sometimes a few minutes or half a day or
something. Yeah, but this one was eight years old. We had this like on the one we posted this,
the future feed failed, future feed failed say that a few times. And we had to go in and fix this
but yeah, yeah, we fixed it now this time by like taking that stuff out and putting those as
a separate file, which I think we need to do anymore like try not to send code, big done things
to code, and just refer to it in your show notes. If it comes in as a separate file in my
processes will handle it fine. But yeah, if you say, oh, it's in the note and I'd like it to be
put somewhere else and then links me to that gives me a slide. Well, that's asking you to edit.
I also find this. Maybe we should do a shortive about when we're coming down from Scotland,
actually, just about the stuff that we've, you know, the stuff I was saying in the training.
That's, you know, those talk of AI and I was going, we're never going to be replaced because I am,
I am super amazed at how people can break stuff. And every single time they do, it's perfectly
logical. It's yeah, it's like, of course, I can absolutely see why you would do that. And then
we have to fix that, you know, or change it. Yeah, it's I feel like that to the boy in the
dyke, you know, I rushed across and put my finger and maybe got a cork and stuck it in and then,
you know, there's another one just down there, we're going to do that. I'm going to have learned
learning about detecting leaks and and and my cork supply is working quite well. But, you know,
it's very much like that. It's, it's a, it's whack I'm over. Yeah, it's cool. It's good stuff though.
It is fun. It is fun. Yeah, yeah, it's fun. It's fun. It's fun in all sorts of ways.
Except on the days when you think, oh, go ahead and do this. Or when the shit storms come,
I just can't be dealing with that sometimes, you know, always just at the worst possible time when
you're tired and whatever, managing shit storms. I need to do a show on the commenting,
common system because I think the commenting system has been unjustly targeted as
because it's doing, fecking exactly what it's supposed to do, Dave, which is blocking spam,
primary function, blocking spam, how many spam messages have gotten through since we've
implemented the commenting system, Dave. I think there are. I know there's no reason. There's
no reason to write where where I've been. This is a human. I know this is a human, but this is a
human threading touching the water and putting their toe in to see exactly what we're doing. So,
anyway, I have done in this series of meta episodes, I've done a few, the two this month,
in the next one will be on the commenting system and why I believe it is, in fact, fit for purpose.
Then we have a call for help at Spectrum24 and also a.com. So, again, put up or shut up,
if you are saying we're continuing with it, if you are saying that the best way to communicate with
people is one to one things and you are either of these conferences or could come to help out for
a little while or either of these conferences, then please come and help because that would be
pretty cool and it wouldn't be just down to us. Because we in HPR does not mean we as a community
and then just tell Ken and Dave to do it, yeah. We means you help out as well. Yeah.
Are there going to be tables of camp? You know, there aren't, but there's going to be the room and
we can sit around at a table. So, we're having a booth of camp. Yeah. What the point is, you go to
these conferences and you spread the word. Yeah, you're actively doing stuff and believe me,
going to these conferences is important. If we get on the list, then it's a reference to
this talk was given at this place. This project is HPR by that person. It's documented evidence
outside of self-referential things that we're doing. It will get interest into the project.
It has the project to be taken more seriously, et cetera, et cetera. And I will say as well,
when I was in India and I was handing out those business cards, I was a bit concerned about the
shows that would be coming up during that week that would be sprawled across the front page.
So, you know, that is something if there was just happened to be a controversial show on that day
when I was demoing it. I did not have the feeling of being comfortable with it. I had to go and
look in the upcoming shows and see which shows were coming out and was there anything embarrassing
that would be coming out at that time. So, the way to, of course, tackle that is that our
front page is more about community. There will be some links to the titles of the shows and those
shows, of course, will be available if you're actively going into look at them. But, yeah, a little
bit more, a little bit more professional there on the thingy. Headlines rather than content.
Headlines rather than content. And we do control the headlines. We edit out naughty words and stuff
from the headlines. So, that's fine that you know, again, it's, it's unoffensive to anybody in the
world. That's the thing. What you say in the show itself is fine. So, as long as another
offensive end is goal of sharing knowledge, I guess. But, as far as the rest is concerned,
when you hit the landing page, it should be more about what the project is. You should, yeah,
wear a podcast and hear over here in the corner as it shows and how you can listen to them.
But, where about this? Where about this? This is our values. This is our code of conduct. This is
which, basically, will be one line respect each other. Be respectful. Yeah. But time to do that.
And I still, two weeks' time, I have this spectrum 24 thing and I don't have my presentation
written. I'm not panicking, Dave. I have like dreams of like, yeah, when I'm in India, I love
loads of time, you know, but they're in the room and evening. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Really worked out that way. Now it's good because others are basically selling HBO or
a tiny buddy, anybody in some cool stuff. Actually, one of the guys did a project, Arduino project on,
on using LEDs to look into the soil to see how much nutrients and stuff was in the soil. So,
cool. Wow. Banging away at that. But, yeah, my tribe library, here's the Raspberry Pi, if you
send me a show. Yeah. Okay. Any other business? Hit me with them. Right. Well, there's only one
thing really. And it's just me putting out some A number, actually. The notes are supposed to
have been refreshed by the time we get. Well, they will be by the time this goes live. So,
I've been throwing a table in there saying how many shows I've done just for my own benefit,
really. But since I started and I've had a bit of a breakfast now, of course, it's really
tiring doing this. There were 350 shows that needed to be repaired in quotes as I'm calling it.
And I've done 252 of them. Wow. I did them by the 25th. And I've been doing five a day. And so,
that leaves a hundred to be done. So, it's the worst hundred. But we're getting there. We're getting
there. And so, yeah, I won't do anything more or say anything more than, you know, we're doing it.
If you spot anything. Yeah. If you spot anything that says click here to see your see this file
and it ain't there, then tell us because it's slipped through the net and we can repair it.
Yeah. We're also fighting an uphill battle with a stuffed disappears on the internet and stuff.
Yeah. Oh, absolutely. The older ones are showing up all of the links that are now dead.
Yeah. You know, is that the time to go through and dig through and do way back machine calls
and stuff? I don't know. No, I don't know. Finish this first. And then too many projects that
go in on at once. Absolutely. Too much for older. Oh, I sold crusties. Yeah. Yeah.
There's a lot. There's a lot to do, Dave. They, you know, they we do the audio, we do they,
and we could just take it and you know, pack it up there on the site and just leave it off. But
it's about improving the quality of everything as well. And I see it as a sort of archival
project to this particular bit of it, you know, so yeah. Good. Good, good, good, good, good. So, yes,
by the time, perry, perry. What is it? I mean, I'm not going to panic about that.
I need to do my expenses, Dave. I shouldn't be doing this show. I need to do my expenses. That's
what I need to do. Yep. Right. That's it folks. Sorry if this was a bit of a bitch in session,
but you know, we're human too here at HPR. So tune in tomorrow for a little exciting episode of Hacker
and public radio. You can see radio, Dave. Oh, I did, but I forgot to say I told you I can't
remember a press. The speech folks just did. Talk about crusty. I don't know. Yeah. Oh,
we've got to mention just a big thing. Speaking of crusties. No, no. Proposal for
to make archer 72 and some kindly internet admins on the matrix channel.
That's faces. They're doing the, they're doing a double make a good show. Hey, that's a good show.
That's a good show. We do. You should do that show. Hey, let's do a series. Let's talk.
The terrible. Yeah. But that is the job. Yeah. That's the job. You're there,
chocking away. And if somebody mentions something, they're not like a flash. So it's good. It's
it's really good actually because yourself and myself are in the European time zone. And then
those guys cover the other time zone. So even if somebody in Australia puts in a question,
they don't have to wait too long before one of us, you know, answers or at least, you know,
forwards on those one case were forwarded onto me. And I know I was able to talk to people
and guess it's sorted. So that's good. So that sort of thing is good. And we have Norrist,
who's already in admin, who we're going to be, who's going to be doing the janitor for the matrix
stuff. And how have we spoken about that? Did we? We, it was mentioned when the idea was first
brought up, I think, wasn't it? Yeah, but since then, about the, because I had some, I had a whole
of issues about it with how we do with licensing and all the other stuff. And then I'm thinking
about it since then. Oh, yeah. And that was about the about people, there's the poor show,
whether or not. So the question is, right, are we allowed to take your comments onto the creative
common CCBSA license? I'll put them into our database and distribute them like so. Or not.
Because, you know, the idea behind the fedaverse is that they messages are
if they're really in federal support, they disappear. Yeah. Yeah. And so some people might like
to like that. So therefore, there's a question of permissions. Do you want us to use? Do you want
communication with us to the HBR thing? To be, yeah, I was in the generous channel, actually,
that's why. Which we use all the time guys, surprise, surprise. So what is your, what platforms do
we support? So we support email, obviously. We want to support Masterdog, what about Twitter,
what about Facebook Messenger, and all the other ones, new ones that come in the next 19 years.
So there's going to be a relationship table there associated with that. And then there will
probably be, you know, are we actively using that as a communication channel? And then as,
as we gather these handles, all of you, there's going to be the, we're required then under the GDPR
to, to get your consent. And then under the Creative Commons license, if you give us your consent,
then if you take your consent away, then you won't be releasing shows under the Creative Commons.
So I said, so it gets messy. So that work is ongoing. That work is ongoing.
So more shows, right, shall we do it again? Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Hacker. Public. Press your key. Radio. Radio. I should do it in an old crusty voice. Radio.
You, your limbs, your hands are right. Constantly. Okay Dave, thanks very much. Okay, no.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording broadcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net. On the Sadois status,
today's show is released on our Creative Commons' attribution 4.0 international license.
