Episode: 4513
Title: HPR4513: Living the Tux Life Episode 2 - Ventoy
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4513/hpr4513.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:16:17

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,513 for Wednesday 19 November 2025.
Today's show is entitled Living the Tux Life Episode 2 Ventoy.
It is hosted by Al and is about 12 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Al discusses using Linux as a daily driver.
In this episode, I talked about Ventoy and Linux Mint.
Hi and welcome to episode 2 of Living the Tux Life.
I'd like to apologise to the poor quality of the audio on episode 1, I'll try and be
better.
So to recap, I want to get rid of my windows on my laptop and try to run Linux as my daily
driver.
This podcast see documents my story.
Since last time, I was doing a lot of digital hopping as I normally do, but I think I found
something I really like.
To start, I'd like to introduce a piece of software called Ventoy, which has one end
is normal USB A and the average USB C. So you can use it on new and modern hardware,
new and modern and old hardware.
It's a piece of software that makes any USB stick beautiful.
We could set it up by either Windows or Linux, a process divides USB stick into two
partitions.
The first is a part of the one, the Ventoy boot OS, and the second is where you can store
your ISO files, simply copy your ISOs to the storage partition.
Using whatever message you like, fight through the file browser, unplug the USB stick and plug
it into the machine you want to install the OS on.
The piece you will boot into the Ventoy OS and it will display a load and a nice boot
menu with all the ISOs on your USB stick.
You can intersect the one you want to boot into to install.
This is a gateway to try different distributors having to write each ISO to two USB using DD
command.
I've always been an Ubuntu fan, but I'm not clicking of the main no-no release.
I've not found the side up, that's the dock, or having to install GNOME extension.
That's two simple things.
In the past, I said a little uncompany because I like how custom-arbitable it is using KDE.
However, I ran an intern issue with Installer.
One thing important to me is to make sure the laptop hard drive is encrypted in case I
leave the house with the laptop.
Also want to be able to hibernate the laptop, but there seems to be a bug with Ubuntu
Installer which seems to etting up custom partitions with encrypted lugs using the Kaya Mara installation.
It does crash it.
There's an open bug for this, and even if you create the partition outside Installer,
it still crashes.
I did manage to get it working by installing an old version of Ubuntu and setting up a
liquid-ed-lux partition, and then upgrading it too, but it seems a bit of a fath way
of doing it, because I want to be able to run it through my laptop and just install
the ISO and start again from scratch.
So one of the main goals is to get the best battery-op installation possible on my laptop.
I want to be able to close lid, have it go into deep-seeping, then quickly resume right
where I left off when I opened it again.
I'll talk more about this later in the show.
I really like the look of operating system like Castio S, which is based on Art6, as a
great design.
Unstored it, and it was nice and fast, and then enjoyed the overall feel, but hibe-ladies
didn't seem to work until a good couple of hours tinkling when it would know that.
I also had a podcast that set some that they also had a received an update and it broke
their system.
A common issue would be the Edge1 releases.
It also had an issue with the ButterFS install where his machine had crashed, and it basically
corrupts his fast system, and he had to fix it by running some scandals.
But for me, I want stability, it's important.
This is why I like Ubuntu Dissues when using things like 8x4, 8x4 and LVM, and looks
equipped with partitions.
I've never had any problems in the past, so even though Castio Edge looks cool, it's
not the right fit for me.
I also tried some tiny managers.
Tiling when they manage like Hyperland, which is interesting, but managing to be going
far easier in files, isn't for me, or taking a time to learn the shortcuts for me, so
I have to use Windows for work, I'm never going to remember when I keep swapping between
the two.
The only thing that I said before, that I want to put links on my wise t480 thinkpad,
as it's a good machine, and I, an 8x5 with 16K RAM, and one of those external batteries
so it can go for days without being plugged in.
There's nothing wrong with it, the only reason I like looking to put links on it is not
supported by Windows 11, because it has got no TPM in it, so I started to think, what
display should I put on it?
Well, my wife isn't very tech savvy, but once she knows how work flows, she's fired.
I saw KDE with my first op, might be the best too much, and a bit overwhelming for her.
Her name felt a bit too different, because I don't think she would get on well with the
Mac kind of way of doing things.
I don't think the standard of Bintu setup wouldn't be the right fit either.
Then I remembered, my friend Kevin from the network maintained the next min, which got
me thinking it's often recommended for beginners, first I saw, it seemed a bit basic for someone
like me, and I wondered why I would like to run the next min, but then I realised I should
put something I'm happy to use to myself, that's why I remembered that I was doing some
tests with the hibernation couple of months ago, reading some bog boat that the next min worked
at the book with hibernation.
There I am, recording the episode.
On my laptop, running later for the next min, with the chimera desktop.
My current laptop is the think pad X, Y, carbon, they've been to Gen, i7 with 16KG, and
the 4K touch screen, I swapped out my SSD with my Windows 1, I put a new one in, but
at the vent I started a live session, and saw the next min onto the cryptid, so I'd gone
to the cryptid luck partition with an LVM disk.
Within 50 minutes, I had a fresh install up and running, the first thing I wanted to
check was with hibernation and deep sleep worked, deep sleep is a power saving state, where
you can close a laptop lid, the system save it state to RAM, while most components power
down is a life of significant power saving and the fast wake up time.
There's two sleeping modes, in the next, S2 idle, suspend idle, and deep suspend to RAM.
S2 idle is always available, but the deep one depends on your hardware, I wanted to
check quick sleep mode was enabled on my laptop, so I ran cat, space, 4x6, 4x4, 4x6
mem underscore sleep, and those that deep wasn't in the list, after a bit of research, I
found out that I'd often need to enable deep sleep in the bias, and this is a specific
setting for this as well, I rebooted into my bias, enabled into the next setting, and
rebooted by machine, once I did that, deep appeared my list again when I run that
command, but it had bracket around it, I ran it S2 idle, but you needed to have the
brackets ran, the deep to make the work, so I ran the command echo space deep, greater
than space, 4x6, 4x4, 4x6 mem underscore sleep, it was then enabled with the name, but
I'll put links to that in the show note of those commands, so I really wanted to test
out how well deep sleep and hibernation worked on my laptop, I closed the lid and put it
to sleep, when I opened up again, it woke up instantly right where I left off, I had
to add to enter my password, and everything was fine, after overnight I shut down the
lid, and it went to sleep, next when I powered up next morning, only left was 5%, it lost
only 5% charge, next I wanted to see what happened, if the battery got low when I still had
things open, would a laptop go into hibernation, hibernation of the mobile, instead of shutting
down the laptop, it says it's shutting down the laptop, the laptop says everything
in the running in a ram to file on a disc or to a swap partition, then the laptop powers
off completely, so there's no battery train, when you turn it back on it loads everything
from that file or partition back into ram, and you're right where you left off, it does
take a bit long to be up compared to waking up from the deep sleep, but it's a great
option if you need to stay power or leave your laptop unplug for a while, since I'm running
and I quit the hard disk, I had to enter a password every time I left off bits, which
makes things a bit more complicated, if you want to use hibernation, you need to swap
file or a partition, a swap partition, when I set up the next minute it created a
2G white swap partition you might before, but the recommendation you have the swap space
to twice double sides of your ram, because of my, because my system is using LVM and
encrypted duct volume, I followed the guide which I cleaned in the show notes, to boot
the laptop using a live CD, live I, so even, and my own was in the next minute, I carefully
mounted the encrypted duct partition, LVM, it could see it, and I ran a couple of commands
to shrink the main volume and expand the swap partition, after a reboot I had a 32 gig
port partition which is perfect for hibernation, which involves updating the graph file, you also
need to name a hibernation button in the shutdown menu, once I did that the option appeared,
so I selected the hibernation, on the screen I always screen went blank and the laptop
powered off, when I pressed the power button, the laptop booted back up, asked and asked
my disk for the encryption fast rate, I then brought it to an important lock screen,
after the password I was right back to where I left it off, over the next week I used
the laptop, daily without charging it, just shutting it in when I was done, when the
battery finally dropped to 510, I close the laptop that night, and I also went in, I
closed the lid that night, and the laptop automatically went hibernation overnight, next
day I plugged it back in, booted it up, it right away, and again it booted up again, asked
my encryption password, and I was back, and I was back to where I was before, the first
thing I do, when I start customisation, when I, with the next mint, as I went to the bottom
panel, I made it a bit smaller, I like how the apps appear, along the bottom night they
do in Windows, to start, when you look, good, I don't know what that actually called
in the ink spent, and the search feature works well, I can find things easy, that pack support
is included out of the box, while snap is disabled by default, which is which type of
versions I'm not a fan of snap anyway, I saw the few essentials, like VS code and quake,
quake is a top down terminal, you can access by pressing S12, it pops down from the top,
you can run your commands, press S12 and it'll hide away, but it'll still be running
in the background. I've also set up DiLoad, a clipboard manager, but had to add a tentaking
set up, so it would show up properly in a state bar, because I got double, if not, I changed
the matter pointer from the large white one to a smaller black, triangular style, where
I would type a fur, I also saw the Dacity and VLC using flatback, and everything works
smoothly. I also have Microsoft Edge installed, because it has worked best for the office,
freezing to apps I need to use, I'm still using official ones off repositories, and
update for Edge showed up right in the Linux Mint update manager. I like having an update
manager icon down by the time shows you have updates. I like setting up key bindings to
quickly launch certain apps, which is something I always find not easy to do in Windows. On
X-Winch, you do use the keyboard setup, there are also tutorial cuts for tiling on
tapping Windows to the side screen, plus you get virtual desktops for all of your workspaces.
Quite well. So I've got everything working hard, I like it, and I've really impressed
after running the X-Winch for a week, all the key buttons work. I like the key to adjust
the brightness, one thing I'll say so is a battery life, I know it's never going to
be much to a MacBook with an M series processor, but I do like a good thinkpad. I current X-1,
which is recording this on, gets about 2-3 hours of battery life. It has a 47-hour battery,
but about 90% health, but because it's got 4k set of screen, it doesn't last long. So
I spent a lot of time on the thinkpad separate, trying to find out which model is the best
battery life. Recently, I've been found out that the T4S Gen 2 would AMD to business class
laptop with a 14-inch screen, and the S means it gets a larger battery compared to a
version. People say it can get 8-10 hours of battery life. I've been watching one on
the eBay, and they have come, they haven't come very often, but I found one this week with
16 year RAM and it went for $260. It should arrive soon, so my plan is to store the next
mint on it and see how the battery life compares. I've also been looking at plans to check out
for these years to monitor battery life and performance. This is it this episode, I'm
still looking for a cave host, as I think it would be great to bow and tie tears off from
someone else. If you're interested, leave a comment on the show or find my email on the
host page. See you tomorrow for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our Sync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
and Extribution 4.0 International License.
