Episode: 4145
Title: HPR4145: Review of the Riwbox TX8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4145/hpr4145.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:13:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4145 for Friday 21 June 2024.
Today's show is entitled Review of the Rybox TX-8.
It is hosted by Swift and is about 6 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is I talk about the Rybox TX-8 and why I love it so much.
Hello everybody, this is Swift 110 and I will go ahead and do another recording, trying
to do more recordings on Hacker Public Radio these days to help keep them up in the
float of regular submissions.
Now, one of my later acquisitions is a Rybox, one of the pronounced Rybox, a RUBOX.
It's the RyWBOX that's TX-8 Bluetooth headphones.
They can be connected by means of an audio cable to your phone or any other device you may
have and they also work of course by means Bluetooth.
Now, I'm looking at them on Amazon and they are available for $26.
Not bad.
I managed to get these headphones because they were just nice and I'm glad to have them.
What's really cool about these particular headphones is that they're foldable.
They got long play time.
Once you charge them up, you don't have to worry about them going to any time.
The top of that, they charge up pretty quick too.
When you get that battery life, that's amazing.
You also get amazing sound quality as well.
They're suitable for various types of music, whatever you like.
You're going to be happy with these over the ear headphones and I'm just so glad.
I love the touch control where you can hang, answer, hang up, phones, control it, out even touching the phone.
And I'm getting these two little features to be honest with you.
I'm getting used to being able to do things without actually having the phone in my hand.
There's a large 40 millimeter speaker for superb bass output, output and clear highs,
a microphone for hands-free calling and tight seat charging cable for safer and longer lasting reliable charging.
There's a 400 milliamp battery to give over 400 songs.
There's a lot on a single charge.
Great sound quality, great stability and likely to get a cable for it to be even better.
It's comfortable on my head.
Oftentimes I fall asleep with the horn.
And so, oh no, very happy with these.
And I want to put the link to this particular device in the sound.
In the, what's that called?
In the notes.
Yeah, in the show notes.
There you go.
I'm going to have it.
There you go.
These TX8 Bluetooth headphones.
Blue box.
Re-woo lock.
Something.
I don't know.
But however you pronounce it, they're pretty dark on good.
So I am actually going to look up videos about this particular earbuds on YouTube and see what people have to say.
They're lightweight and they just don't have any problems.
Like, oh my goodness, the TX8s.
These are just really dark on nice.
And to be so inexpensive, they're not a problem.
It's Bluetooth 5.3.
They store really easily.
They can adjust the size of the headset.
Yeah, you can adjust to a bigger ear.
And bring them down to a smaller size.
You probably heard that click.
That battery life is awesome.
We amazing.
Push button.
Navigation.
You got SD card slot.
So I can play directly from an SD card in these things.
Talk about nights, right?
So no matter what it is you're trying to do, you're going to be good to go.
They're not coming off your head once they're on here.
They're not water resistant, so don't get them wet or anything.
They're Bluetooth frames just 10 meters.
And I do pretty good with them.
I don't have a problem at all.
They say something about polymer.
When the lithium polymer batteries require, and that's included, okay.
They've been available since 2021.
It'll be interesting to actually see the actual...
Yeah, it'll be interesting to see what the reviews actually are on YouTube.
I'm willing to take a look and kind of go from there.
Well, you guys, this is one of my shorter reviews, but it's short this week.
I've got it to have more, and it actually works something, you know.
Like I normally ramble.
So that's this will be one of the shorter presentations I do.
Anyway, you guys have a great night.
Take care.
It's just been slow for 10th.
And my all means old.
Before I forget, you guys, please, please, please, please submit to hacker public radio.
They need our submissions, you know, for people who are amateurs.
You don't need any professional equipment.
Just talk.
And the rest will be taken care of, okay.
All right.
See you guys.
This is with 110.
Take care.
You have been listening to hacker public radio.
That hacker public radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBO listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBO has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com,
the internet archive and our sync.net.
On the satellite status, today's show is released on our creative commons,
attribution 4.0 international license.
