Episode: 4241
Title: HPR4241: HPR Community News for October 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4241/hpr4241.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:00:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4241 from Monday the 4th of November 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for October 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by an Englishman, an Irishman, and a Scotsman, and is about 96 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is,
Kevin Dave and Ken talk about shows released and comments posted in October 2024.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio today.
It is the Community News for October 2024, and joining me today from Edinburgh is...
Ah, hello, it's Dave Morris.
I was going to say it from Scotland, but that wouldn't narrow it down because our other guest is also from Scotland.
And you are?
Hello, hello, it's Kevin from the Outer Heavities, or most of you know probably know me from Tuxjam.
Yeah, from the Outer Heavities, yeah, exactly.
From the Outer Heavities, right, from the Outer Heavities. Are you up there now?
I am, yes. In fact, I've literally just finished my working day, so came home quickly, so I can be part of this.
Excellent. Well, this for those of you who don't know is the Community News for Hacker Public Radio, Hacker Public Radio's Community Podcast Network,
where the shows are brought to you by the general public, aka your self.
If you ever, and to quote another Tuxjam host, if you'd like to record a podcast,
but couldn't be bothered, send it into Hacker Public Radio, I think that needs to be on our banner.
Anyway, this show, we do once a month to make sure that everybody is up,
well, to make sure that all the shows get a mention, and it's particularly important this week,
because of this month, because of the outages that we had with our, with the internet archive,
and all the rest of that stuff, which we'll deal with in any other business.
So there's a huge possibility that you may have missed some of the shows that we're going to talk about this month.
If you have, and you're a bit shocked or surprised about that, it's not you, it's me.
So, what we'll do is, first of all, Dave, if you would mind introducing the new host for this moment.
It's really hard to do along signs if that, any speech. There are no new hosts this month,
unfortunately, very sad. But Dave, how can this be, surely, with all the people that listen to
this grid podcast? There will be one or two who would throw us a new show. How difficult can it be?
Yes, yes, I know, I know. Maybe next month, some of the people we tried to get to do shows that
okay, we'll come forth and do things. We should be excellent. Yes, and no doubt we will be
speaking about our camp as we proceed through this melee that is the community news.
Okay, as I said, the first thing we do is go through each of the shows from the previous month.
And the first one was on the first of October, and that was episode two, sorry, four, two, one,
seven, which is by Harry Larry, second in his series on command line programs. This one, though,
was a dirt-simple photo gallery. The premise of which was to write a program, make
he does events. Basically, you take a photo, you write some text, that's it, dirt-simple photo gallery.
I really, really did like this one myself. Yeah, yeah, me too, me too. I haven't looked at it,
but definitely got a note to myself to go and check it out, because that would make life so much
easier to keep photos in order without having to do a great deal of work. Oh yeah, great stuff.
Yeah, absolutely. You thoroughly enjoyed this one, and I have to confess, I'm not actually
much of a coder at all, but this is one that actually almost inspired me to actually look,
yeah, I'm going to give this a wee try, when I've got a few minutes, and thankfully with the kind
of darker nights and wetter nights approaching, I probably will have some more three times, so it would
maybe even be good for a follow-up episode, actually, if any of us actually do manage to set up one of
these. Yeah, cool, good stuff. So the next day we had a crazy battery story by Swift 110,
which of us have not been there, go down to the shop for a battery, and you get the wrong one,
then you come back, and ugh, yeah, been there a lot of that. Yeah, absolutely, been there,
been there a bit too many times, especially when, I mean, okay, it's not quite the same, but these
dashed circular disc ones, the amount of times I've bought them, I don't come home, it's a wrong
code, and they don't work. I tried to keep a stock of them, and then I go to my stock,
well, you know, like half a dozen or so, I think, right, yes, I want a 2032, there's not one there,
I used the last one for Dr. By anymore, that's even worse in many respects. And then they're
slightly too thick, slightly too thin, they're passed there, used by date or something. Oh yeah,
I've got a record, I've had them in my, in my, you know, parts bit, and then like two years later,
put on the DVM on them and they're all flat. So, great.
Although I did think this was a great idea, after Confessifacti was constantly out to tell,
since we got a universal and one remote, I did think, ah, that's a brilliant idea.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah, actually, a good tip there in general, actually.
So the following day, we had another tip, which was a black time and head gear recommendation
from some guy in the internet who is now doing trucking for a living, and yeah, when you needed,
you needed black bears in the, in the shrubbery. That's, that's something, I don't know, maybe
up in Scotland, you've got mooses or something. I haven't seen many, have you, Kevin?
Not mooses, but sadly, we're overrun with deer just now, it drives me up the wall. It's
especially don't, she's driving at night, because they are just, they're brazen, they're actually
coming towards the cars now, I'm going to jump into the way. So yeah, I have actually no,
no issue if anybody wants to spend a bit of money in the local area and decide to
take up a buy a hunting license or something, as long as you keep to the stuff that's in abundance.
Those are the guys that bring in new ticks as well, aren't they?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, it's, yeah, it's been absolutely crazy here. I don't know, I think they
were, since they had the crackdown, we know obviously there's a good reason they had crackdown on
unlicensed weapons. The problem was, see, a lot of the local guys used to kind of keep the deer
at bay a wee bit, but of course nobody can be bothered now just to have a legal license up here,
so there's less than getting shots at least. So moving on, the following day, we had how
Doctor Who began, and this is the first in the series of Doctor Who, which I must confess I've
listened to them all, and this one was fascinating. The whole Doctor Who genre, not the first time
we've mentioned Doctor Who on HPR by any means. No, no, this is good. This was a fairly in-depth
third analysis, I thought, and that was really, really good. Yeah, I've listened to them all
as well, these ones, and I've really enjoyed it. I must admit, I am a sci-fi fan, but I've never
really been much of a Doctor Who fan, but this really actually got me quite instant. I think it was
just, it's going back to when I was young, but I was really into kind of Spider-Man's superman
that kind of thing, and then the very first Doctor Who I saw, I think I was a bit seven at the time,
and it was, what was his name, Sylvester? Was he McCann or something? McCoy. McCoy, yes. Sylvester
McCoy. And not just the, what do you call it, the flat straw hat kind of thing as well. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. And just sadly, he wasn't pretty much a superhero compared to Superman, Spider-Man
for a seven-year-old, so I remember just thinking this would be so cool if it was Superman fighting
the Daleks, but this guy just didn't appeal to me personally. I must say, I was just, my brothers
were into it, and they were a little bit older than me, I was always scared. Of the, of the whole
thing, it was always like something normal that you're likely to come across would just turn into
an alien, it was, it freaked me out. I think I don't think it really freaked me out until
I remember going into boots for the first time on the mainland, and they had those things that
look like upside-down Dalek heads, security cameras, they freaked me out, seriously.
So, the community news, you left a comment, do you want to read it or shall I?
All right, yes. Community news last time, we couldn't remember the names of people who'd
been done the work on the notes for the New Year show, we knew Scotty, but couldn't remember
the other person, and so I added a comment saying, going by the credits on the previous year's notes,
I think the notes this time, this time round, we're prepared by Scotty and HP Lovecrown,
please correct me if I'm wrong, thanks to all in book, they're making a new years each show a
reality. Perfect, yes, that's exactly who it was, great stuff, thanks for clarifying the record,
and the other one was Brian and Ohio, the best price is $100 for a banana pie as a total scam,
here's the link to AliExpress, 28 years new BMI M1, the M1 Plus is an orange pie,
our sportive slackwear, as well as R64 and Rockwell 64, I'll never buy from India, so thanks for that
tip. Yeah, no, that wasn't kind of the point, the point was equivalency, so my, I was trying to
make the point that you have to adjust the prices to what the worth of the prices in the country,
and even that is too expensive. So let's move on to the next day, which was Tuesday, the 8th,
and we were replacing the batteries in Mr. X's Kenwood Part 5, and you think that somebody making
six-part episode out of the series would be dull and boring, but it was an adventure all the way,
I must say. There were two comments. I did the first one, yes, Beezer says,
old battery, time is directs, I have an analog multimeter that I inherited from my dad,
he bought it in 93, and it still works fine with the original battery. Contrast that with modern
batteries that can be dead when you take them out of the packaging, if they're more than a year,
two-old. And Mr. X says, about old batteries, Hi Beezer, thanks for the nice comment, how true
everything these days is made cheaper, it's a race to the bottom. My old trusty Fluke 77 DVM,
due to the fault of Minjor, had a very old PP3 battery in it that finally fails, though I was in
doubt, it was as old as 1983. Not only do the batteries not last as long, I suspect they also
more likely to leak, so it's probably even more important to check these modern ones more frequently.
I hope you have many more faithful years used out of your diets, analog meter, for a lot of jobs
they can't be beaten, Mr. X. Yeah, I thought any of you would join this series, I must have
done. Like you say, Ken, if you were to tell me on paper, somebody are repainting an old
radio, you know, and it'd be on a podcast, you can see it, you think, oh, I can't imagine,
and go, oh, it's big, really good, it's been really interesting to hear.
With these ones, I'm sorry, go ahead, David. No, I just can say it's just nice to sort of be
be at least shoulder looking at these things and considering all the issues of, you know,
opening it up and soldering this, that and the other, I find it fascinating, and the pictures
make it for me, as I said before, because you can really visualize what's going on there.
Absolutely, and of course, he had that issue this month with the Bathly Acids, and it actually
brought me back to mind one of the times where a Bathly Acid leaked all of me, and I thought I had
managed to get it kind of cleared up, and it was funny within two days, I had holes all the way down
my jeans. I was like, you're kidding. Oh, wow. Yeah, so if you do get that stuff, I think, you know,
he rightly said, Mr X rightly said at the during the show, wash your hands and wash everything
immediately, because that's nasty. Yeah, absolutely. But a good show, speaking of good shows,
the following day from the archive, from the reserve queue, a movie review of the art first girl,
and I'm going to explicitly not ask you for comment on this, because I saw Kevin, I think you
don't have a response to this, I think. Yes, I've never done a response show. We'll meet you on this,
you're not allowed to comment. That's fine. I loved this, though. Yeah, it was nice. It was
kind of like, I wasn't allowed to talk on any leaks, look at shows, or talk here, so very good.
Yes, very good, perfect. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I have listened on occasion to their reviews,
not for a while, actually, I'm just too busy with other things, but yeah, they do, they do a nice
job of finding bizarre films and reviewing them and stuff. Sometimes not so bizarre either,
but yeah, yeah, so it must have been fun. I must go back and listen to that one, if I possibly
care. Not a lot of commenters this month either, for some reason, probably the same reason.
Auto Shop Interaction, where Archer 72, a Ramzon was about his experience as a Walmart oil change shop,
and the audio was not great in this one, we tried to tidy it up as best we could. It's past my,
it's audible. It's an audible one, but yeah, we're going to work on that. I think you could make
it also in the end. Were you able to follow along? I couldn't, to be honest, but my hearing's a bit
a bit messed up these days, so I think the, the, the, the louder bits were good, but the quieter bits
were bad, so I tried turning it up and was deafened by the loud bits there, so I didn't get a huge lot
of it, to be honest. Yeah, I tried actually listening to it in the vehicle, but yeah, my problem was
I was up and down, up and down with the volume, and it was really distorting. The way I just did it was
I waited to let go, to listen to it through the headphones. It was a bit painful, because you had
done quite a high up, and sometimes that did different. But I was able to get it on the second attempt
at listening, but yeah, the first attempt was a bit more difficult. Yeah, the same. So we,
yeah, unfortunately, this one wasn't spotted in time, because it was from the reserve queue,
so tip to everybody, the reserve queue we send in shows, you won't have to listen to this. However,
the reserve queue we do want, we want the reserve queue to be used to fill slots when they're not filled,
and we want it to refresh through, so make sure you're, yeah, try and get good recordings.
With this one, it ended up costing me several hours of editing, and then I had to send it out to
Audiophonics as well, and then trying to tweak it. Unfortunately, the source wasn't available
anymore, so there's not a lot we could do about that. So, yeah, I think I already have a
bug open to check as part of the reserve queue processing, that we have a quick listen for
audio quality of the reserve queue first, so that we can then actively go back to the host and get
the source one, which unfortunately was gone on this. Not precise RG70 to do or anything, it was
a good attempt at making an episode on the road, but yeah, it is what it is.
That's it, but one thing this episode did actually bring out, it made actually me think of
this could actually be a bit of a discussion for a future show, but I won't go into too much detail,
but just he was talking actually about whether it be in Walmart, and he says, you know, always,
he always did try and support the smaller ones, the smaller independent shows,
but I was actually thinking we've had a bit of issue up here recently, because we have next to
no chains, and I actually thought this actually is something that might actually be worth talking
about our future shows, or something good, and he did come out of this. Yeah, go for it. Now,
there's one comment from a listener about downloading the episodes, so it's not about this.
Messages are saying that the pod catcher or tenipod has unable to download the MP3 files,
all previous episodes download the file, I'm sure, unsure if it's CDN,
it appears to be updating file, possibly related to the issues with archive.org is facing,
and yes, it was related to archive.org, so many years back, two years back, we moved
from hosting all the media, almost host.com, over to the internet archive, and then some people
decided it was a good idea to deduce a library. Yeah, yeah, and so as a result,
they were breached several ways to Sunday. The internet archive is slowly coming back,
they're still in love back, and this has basically pushed the, we already had the idea of a
HPR content delivery network, and that's now currently being built, and the episodes are being
served from there. However, during that process, there was changes to the feeds, so feeds may not be
updated, and as I say, this month's show, if you hear episodes that you haven't heard,
it may be that your pod catcher thinks they're downloaded or tried to download them and couldn't
find them, so if you refresh your feed, you should get them or manually download them. Shall we move on?
Indeed. So, the next day was a chat I had is the last one for Spectrum 24. I didn't bother
any of the Spectrum 24 episodes, because it was just a chat with Christoph and myself. Christoph
is the guy who runs the amateur radio booth at Foster, and it's totally 100%.
Most of the ages, to encourage people to get into amateur radio, which of course,
is just another way of saying hacking. So, that was that episode.
Yeah, I thought I'd enjoyed this one, and I must admit it was actually funny listening to the
paedias. You said both really strong opinions, and you said quite differently opinions as well,
and how in manner of how to do things. That was actually quite entertaining.
Yeah, I enjoyed the conversation. It sounded like a couple of people who knew each other
reasonably well, so just sort of bouncing things off one another, and in a very friendly
sort of way, I enjoyed the tone of it as well as the content.
It's a great guy, highly motivated, and it doesn't know a lot for the community, so
yeah, expect to see and hear more from him. Also, if there's just a nearby, totally related fact,
if anyone is involved in the Codeur Dojo community, Codeur Dojo community, please get in touch with me,
and either Kenneth Falandari, or send a other comment to this episode, so if you're
fantastic, thank you. Codeur Dojo, please step forward. So next show, Jamboree and Taco Bell,
for a longest time it took me to figure out of when you talk about Jamboree, he's referring to
the suite of tools that you put together, and not the boy scout thing. Yes, yes, good easily
being confused. Yeah, it took me while to work it out as well. This one made it very, very clear,
or it's previously there were clues, but I didn't pick them all up. Yeah, it looks pretty good,
actually. Yeah, I'm not, but I really like this, I was fully expecting just from the title,
I was actually thinking it was Jamboree source or something from Taco Bell, you know,
kind of saw the show notes. And I thought, actually, I was listening to it, I was like,
this is actually great, it's like going round to somebody who's on your geeky level for dinner,
and you're talking tech and, you know, making this stuff, it was brilliant, I thought I'd enjoy it.
This very much falls into the, you know, like having a beer with a buddy type series,
you know, like the Mr. X fix and the radio, you know, you just happen to the amble over for,
you know, cup sugars, something, and back and I've personally never done that, but, you know,
the the stereotype of calling into the neighbor for something, and they're just dizzy with
something and just chatting with you. It's fantastic. I really enjoyed it. Okay, we've finished
talk in tech now. Now I've got to continue making the recipe. Yes, and of course, I've run out of
the critical ingredients too, sorry, absolutely. That, typical, that, that rang so many bells with me,
I'm paranoid enough that when the, the jar of paprika is running low, I buy two, because I know that
when the next one runs low, I'm going to have to, I will forget to get the bloody thing,
and then I'm going to be stuck like, thank you, operator was. So yeah, yeah, my, all my, yeah,
spice is full of two, two jars of each. I wonder how many recipes have been formed as a result of
us. We're not using chili con carne, we're using chili con, cinnamon. Yes.
Yeah, I don't know if I fancy that one, chili, chili con cinnamon.
No, no, no, you never know, though. I mean, you might have the wrong glasses on and take the
wrong spice and check it. Could be an internet meme in the few years. Into the challenge.
Anyway, the next day, we had GQ Part Three by Mr. David Morris, who gave us more filters.
Dave, why is it right when I do something, I think I'm an expert on it, and then you come along
and back in the room in my opinions of myself. Well, you know, there's a certain mindset that says,
well, I need to talk about this, but I need to know it really, really, really well, otherwise
people are going to point and go, haha. So, so I tend to go a little bit over the top, I'm afraid.
I don't know if it was good, very informative, but yeah, I must have, but you lost me, Dave,
honoured. I did listen to it all the way through to the end, but I was thinking, dash, I wish I was
up to this level. Well, the time you actually needed, probably you, well, unless you play
Jason quite a lot then, you probably don't need it, but I do know people who do use quite a lot of
Jason, my son for one, in his job, and he writes programs to do this sort of stuff, he didn't know
about JQ. So, you know, you can just take a thing and mash it around and squirt it out in a different
form. It doesn't even need to be Jason, you generated the other end, which is next, the next
I hope, anyway, we'll talk about that. This one, by the way, there's an equivalent one called
YQ, which is YAMLQ. So, it takes the same simplex form as it. Dave, YAML of this in this
episode is new to me, but I must say I was doing copy and pre-sting programming, and it was only
after I listened to this episode, I went, ah, that's why it works like that. That makes sense now.
Well, I spent a long time looking at the manual, which is absolutely amazing. It's a huge
matter of depth, and everything's got an example, but there were so many times I didn't understand
the examples of it, and I have to go and work out why. So, that's why it takes me months to go
sure, already, that I've got to know what the hell is going on, you know. So,
no, this one is going to be referenced internally on our Wiki, Dave, just so you know.
Yeah, yeah, suitable attributions, I'm sure, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, CC by the way it is.
Yep, yep, yep, we ask no more, except of course you send in the show CC by the way.
All this thing audio falls for YouTube by Dave Hingley. One of the terrible twins are the twins.
Brothers, are they cool? Yeah, they're not terrible. Terrible, as in
stand back from my awesomeness and tech, and this one was about
ensuring all your music that you use on YouTube channel is free from copyright claims.
That's the important word in their claims of copyright. I, this one blew my mind, it did.
Yeah, actually, I was, I commented on this one, which I'm not going to read it out, but
if you want to, I was just, I was actually just going to say something else, but yeah, so,
yeah, we had real problems with this, so I said thanks for the show, Dave, YouTube's constant
copyright claims that are paid in the neck. We tried putting an episode of Tuxjam on YouTube,
that was by popular request by the way, and ended up with 15 claims on our show that had four
tracks. The music on Tuxjam is all released under Creative Commons licenses and each claim was
removed after sending a link to the song along with highlighting the license. It was a total
pain in the neck and stopped me from uploading another episode to YouTube. I think that your
project audio audit is a great way for people to be prepared and to have links licenses ready
if they wish to upload to YouTube. Saves the hassle from being called off guard. Thank you for
sharing this and whilst I won't upload to YouTube again, I'll certainly recommend this to anyone
who's considering it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, comment. I thought that was brilliant.
Yeah, so just as an aside, I was sad we didn't see the the the Hingles at Ogcamp, but there you go.
Five years, a long time. Where's it there? Didn't see them. If they were, then
if they were back on, surely, surely would have landed at the booth. Yeah, yeah, they always
tended to come and say hello to the HBO table and whoever they knew. No, it's not possible for those
two guys to be in a room and not be the center of attention to the truth be told. What did you
want to say, Kevin, before I sort of really interrupted you? Oh, no, it was yeah, I was just in
I was actually just going to kind of say a slight part of Facebook. No, no, introduction to my own
comment. Yeah, somebody had said about they really wished that we could put a show on to
we could put our shows on to YouTube and we said we tried we said, I okay, we'll do it once. Yeah,
at times I was spending on emas after that. I was like, no, no, I'm never doing this again. You
know, everything was coming from Jemento. So everything was CC licensed and it was like, oh, this
is awful. No, I'm not doing this again. Oh, just maybe people not listening to the episode,
the idea was that even though you have copyrighted music or even though you have a creative
commons music. So like again, people might not know what creative commons is. So everything's
copyrighted but with creative commons, you assign a deed that people can use it under this
under the levels or agree levels of permissions and by but that doesn't stop people making copyright
claims and it's basically a kind of form of extortion from what I hear that if you go to one of
these clearing houses, you can pay them, I'll pay you a certain amount of money and you know,
your house won't burn down that type of thing. So with regard to licensing, if you
re-license from them the work that isn't licensed then they won't come after you for copyright
names. That's a bit sad, really, a bit sad. Yeah, totally. Yeah. But also it does highlight why
Dave and I previously have had the policy of no uploading to HPR under fair use
or betting music or anything that is in creative commons licensed. We basically put down our foot
on that and here you see really what happens if we get wind the smell of copyright thing because
what's happened to go back and re-edit all the files and repost them and take out copyrighted
materials just to pay and don't need to be dealing with that. Oh yeah, I mean, I can remember
the big kick up a few years ago with members of a child dancing or something that kind of went viral
on YouTube. Do you remember this? Oh yeah, yeah, it's just some background music. Yeah, just
talking about music and they had copyright claims and all this. It's like, oh come on, it's a 10
second shoot of a child dancing. Come on. And I just also wonder, like, oh yeah, that's a nice
tune. I'll watch that and Spotify and you know, just the more the following day guys, we had
neurodiversity and hacking by Lee. There were no comments on this. I wanted to personally write
a comment that this has this was the best and most insightful episode on neurodiversity. I have
come across. I've been I've been dealing with people who who discussed neurodiversity in
a professional capacity for the last several years, one way or another, but this was like finally
somebody who gets what they're talking about and understands what they're talking about and
thank you very much Lee for bringing Matthew to our attention. And anybody who I would recommend
this show, not as HPR admin, I'm recommending this as Ken Falon, the listener, strongly recommend
downloading a list of this one. If you or anybody you know is as hard as the word neurodiversity
yes, well said, well said. I was in two minds whether to comment on this, but I could I couldn't
think how best to say. In fact, the notes I wrote to myself was this was magnificent and I'm
lost the words and I have to listen again. And that was the best thing I've ever heard as well. I
did not know that there were people in the world now who took this view of neurodiversity and were
spreading it and passing it around as opposed to the ancient creaky old way of saying, right,
you disabled so go and go in that institution, you will always do this, you can't do anything,
you know, you got to be watched and all that sort of thing. The old view of what is now called
neurodiversity has been hostile in the extreme and hateful to my opinion. So this was a tremendous
breath of fresh air. Oh totally, I really loved the whole show. I mean like you say it was almost
like you were speechless after that. Wow, what a shoot. This is fantastic, just brilliant. And the
other thing, good thing I liked was they also addressed, you know what I mean, you've obviously got
kind of very kind of old school thoughts, trainer thoughts, you've got new school trainer thoughts,
which again are flawed as they said, you know, just because somebody's neurodiverse does not
automatically make them a great code. Yes, there is overlaps, but don't tell them how to be
assuming that. Yeah, it's not really enjoyed the whole thing. Yeah. And yeah, and dealt with us,
it's just such a good episode. I, I, thanks Lee, he is a great guy and as yes, I haven't got back,
I haven't, he was over as the HBR boot and signed the table and we went out and had a few beers
of them was all a really good guy, really, really nice to meet him at all camp. So civilization,
part four, I guess, part two, all of that, doing the text to speech on these episodes was
a pain in the absolute, I'm reluctant to use naughty words here because you're here, Kebius.
I know you're more friendly, friendly vibe. I'm doing the best, sir. I'm doing the best.
I should, you know, you should, if you want, this is my issue. The virtual chalk will come out
with my microsoft. It'll be on the head. I'm practicing on that. I'm working on that, right?
Very good, yeah, like a little Arduino here throwing chalk at me every time I use naughty words.
Not a big project, actually, but anyone wants to do that, that would be great. Anyway, this is
I digress, I digress, I digress, I digress series, computer strategy games of a hookah who is
as is is is want going through the entire civilization series and giving us tips and tricks about
us. Links to more information is available on his website. Yeah, I must admit, I'm not a civilization
fan, but I am a gamer. So, I was having a listen. Well, I was having a listen to this and I
must admit, I have played free-serve. I think it was Andrew, my touch jam co-host, Macnaloo,
which some of you might know, he was the one who selected free-serve and so I had a basic
understanding of it. Yeah, there was an awful lot of good stuff in this one, especially because he
was talking about it in most of these strategies time of games. Although I've not played civilization,
I've played many strategy games and very often technology is locked until you research and
research might be just time, research might be, you know, the more points you have, the quicker the
research goes, that kind of idea. So, he was talking about the what are the benefits of the
research, what does the research open up and of course, you know, he was the other thing I quite
liked was he did remind you, because when I played free-serve, I focused so much on basically
becoming like a sim city kind of thing, where I was just building up a city. That essentially,
I forgot all about the fact that there was other warring factions who wanted to devour my
civilization and guess what happened? They did. You know, I might have had the most advanced
race in humanity, but I got beaten up by men and clubs. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that would be me
too. I'd be obliterated within minutes, I would have answered. Yeah, so that one was actually
quite good. The one that I've played most recently will be Tropical Six, which is very similar,
in the northern similar style of game, but what I mean is similar in the fact that the technology
needs unlocked and you need to go on the tree and depending on what you choose will obviously
depend on what opens up to you. So I thought that was an excellent, an excellent roundup of what's
available, but also him warning you of the strategy as well. So yeah, well done, Ahuka.
Excellent. Finally, we can do Ahuka Shoes Justice. Thank you very much. So the following day,
we had duplicating multiple USB flash drives with DD and T-mox on free BST.
Essentially, Claudio needs to create load of discs, USB sticks in order to image Windows PCs
and have four ready to rock. So this is one way of doing it, basically set up all the sessions,
and then and then type in to each session and synchronize pressing enter on them to start
DDing each of them in turn. Yeah, great idea, I thought. He referenced, is it CSSH,
a cluster SSH thing? I use that for to update my pies. But I think this needs to be more
sophisticated than that. I couldn't quite follow why this method was better than CSSH because you
can send the thing command to all the SSH sessions, but probably just my ignorance.
Yeah, I must admit, I was kind of listening to it, and I was intrigued, I was interested,
but that was kind of my thought. I went, what's wrong with the old SSH method?
I had this very similar thing in the, I think the first killer feature I had was that really
made me fall in love with Linux was console, allowed you to open up several consoles and type
type the same command into all the consoles, and then press stop, and then you could go into the
first room type 1, 2, 3, 4, and then you basically press enter at the end. So yeah, it's cool, it's
cool. It's another, it's like one of these some guy on the internet shows, this is negative,
this is just, I wouldn't have thought of doing it that way. So yeah, it was a very popular
episode by the looks of it, four comments. So the first one was from Gunnos getting status
of DD in OpenBSD. As you mentioned, OpenBSD DD's command doesn't support this status equal progress,
but it does support, but it does respond to seek info in all capitals,
and it's in the current process status. So if your shell is configured for it, and there's a
note, you might have to use STTY status control capital T in your startup file, since it might not
be default. So if your shell is configured for it, you can use control T to send seek info and
see how DD is processing. Yes, and he responds to that with thanks for the eventful.
Oh, you want me to do more? Are you within one, two, three, four?
No, don't do that one, yeah, God. Okay, I was just going to say that the response...
This is a very advanced and professional level. We're not in this level of professionalism over
here in HBR. We need to get you from live talks, champ, show that, get out any thought of
professionalism. Pretty much, yeah, yeah. So thanks for that for the eventful.
Since you have replied to me a master and about it, I've saved it for future reference,
and will test it out on my OpenBSD machines when I need something to DD-D something.
Dave, you're very late. I'll do Harry Carl, Larry who says similarly. I saw your podcast, so I had to
listen very nice. I actually pretty much followed along, in spite of never having used T-mux.
I have a similar project using ABCDE to create four audio CDs at once, or even eight. I have two
X-Zuban II systems. With four optical writers in each, you have to have a tower. I have my CDs and
folders with the numbered audio tracks. Then I have ShellScript to start ABCDE four times once
for each device. Before you know it, I have four more CDs to test. Reload blanks, hit up an arrow
and go again. I don't use it much anymore now that CDs have gone out of fashion, but it was a
cool project that used to save me a lot of time. Yeah, the audio response. Yeah, the audio
responded to that with that sounds pretty neat, and would love to hear an HPR episode about it.
I'm sure a number of us still use optical media for some things. Thanks for sharing.
I can't help but think, can you, do USB drives and cells have a unique identifier,
that you could assign that to a text file and then run like a bash script or something that would
check this identifier, and then you could do something like parallels to fire Reload on multiple
machines. And then if you're firing a lot from multiple machines, the variable for the
which drive to use could be read from the text file and then you would know to search by UUID
and mount it that way. Then again, when you're messing with the DD command, you don't want to be
arbitrary variables, are you on point? Yeah, put it down to it's probably theoretically possible,
but yeah, on your own head, be it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But this is this is one like now I am
I'm the feeling I have uncommitted myself to another show, another way of doing this episode,
you know, thing, not necessarily the DD thing, but you know, here's a problem, and this is how
Claudio did it. Now do I have to go and do an episode on how to do how well you did it that way.
Here's how I would do that. There are people on some of shows like that. Please do that. It's always
interesting to see another approach. Although I really feel like we should
have to claim it here. The plan I make with DD is a HDR. It's not responsible for the loss of
any drives. No, but a replace DD with LSBLK or something, or, you know, DF, DF is it the disc free,
and how you could put in a disc and check it and run a command, run sync command on multiple
machines. Yeah, that would be an interesting one. You know, like I wonder how many U.S.
And when I was listening to that, I was going, I wonder how many USB sticks could you put into
a computer? Well, for a start, then you have the bandwidth and stuff, but could you, like,
daisy chain USB sticks, like have 128 out there, USB hub and born to all of them.
Two, three. Feet knots. Let me get you on Hackaday. All right.
Anyway, the final episode was the next day in my replacing the Kenwood series by Mr. X.
And I was sad to see the end of it, but he managed to get his radio up and running
without losing any fingers, which is always a good thing or killing himself.
But I thought he was very professional. How he did that Hollywood style ending. You think it's
finished, but he's left it open for a sequel? Mm-hmm. Don't, don't spoil it for any of that.
This fall, replacing batteries in the Kenwood part, part seven, this time it's personal.
Anyway, speaking of all camp, it was massive, it was great. I wasn't actually in, I intended
not to go overboard doing the interviews. Have you gone with that?
Not so good. That's good. So I really only started doing them after I did the presentation,
and then, but, like, there are so many people around, like, and also, also this year, I was like,
ah, Ken, did you want an interview, or did you want to follow up? And I had the, at the end,
poor, ah, was it Gary, who was organizing it? Yeah, Gary. Yeah.
The Gary, poor Gary was like, okay, then once I do the HPR episode, I'm finished with all
camp for the year. You can just see it in its face, like, at the end of the year. Okay, it's
now over. I can go on the beer, so it was, it was really good. Yeah, I did, I felt really sorry
for, because we went out that night. In fact, you actually mentioned it in this episode.
Hey, there's Kevin and McNally back. Why are they back? It was because we were actually trying to
get a hold of Gary, because he was still on, because he said I'm coming out with you. So that was
actually the reason to answer the question in the episode. Did he come back in the end? Oh, he
did come back, but he was, ah, he was out. He started. He was interviewing with somebody out in
the beer garden itself outside. And then he came in and we thought, we're going, so we got a
jacket slaved. And then it was like, where's Gary? Oh, we got to go back for him. He had started
somebody else. I grabbed it from another yard. So, yeah, so poor guy, he was absolutely short
by the end of it. And you could just almost, you could see the feel the weight lifting off,
and it was like, ah, well, it was, it was something else to, like, the pressure, the pressure of
all camp, you know, everybody after five years have so many expectations. And, you know,
is it going to work? Is anyone going to turn up? Well, with the room, all the issues,
all the rest of the stuff. And, you know, oh, yeah, all the other people who ran it before,
they're all going to be walking around as civilians. But do you know what they'll be thinking?
Yeah, we do. It was given, like, you see, all the things, it couldn't have got any better,
than I don't think. Gary did a fantastic job on the whole. Yeah, the whole team. Yeah, it was
marvellous, marvellous experience. Again, Dave had to sit in the car with me for, like,
essentially, two days, so he's, he's keeping some. Oh, no, you're in that car with me.
What's that from? Yeah, next year, we're going to have to arrange you fly down to Glasgow and we'll,
we'll drive from there road trip, four lads. Oh, that sounds like fun. Yeah, yeah, we're like
reminiscing. Yeah, okay. Anyway, the following day was, so this day, we had James Baker of the Open
Rights Group, John, John, and I ran from the union of tech workers, Margaret Lowe from the University
of Warwick, and some weirdos from some sort of podcast I've never heard of. And George,
they keep on ruined those things. And then day two was walked by interview with Dan Lynch,
was good to catch up with him. Turned seating, Simon Fipps, of course, Dan, who gave a liking
talk. And then we gave a bit of a roundup ourselves and caught closing off with Gary Morgan,
I see a bit. I was amazed you actually managed to record. As we were set there in our
pictures and we're in a very, very busy place that actually came out well, I congratulate you on
the quality. Yeah, that's what it was. You've got audio phonics to be brutally honest with you.
Yeah, yeah, but it worked. I would never even have tried that because I could hardly hear what
anybody was saying. Anyway, I didn't think a zoom recorder would do any better.
No, I was really shocked actually, because yeah, like you said, it was really crystal clear. It
wasn't picking up too much background noise. And then you could tell it was in a busy area,
but it didn't spoil it. In fact, it just added to the atmosphere of the recording. It was totally
un-listenable. I had to send it up to audio phonics and I was going, oh, this is totally unusable.
You could not hear a word. And then I got it back. It was like day and night. I should maybe,
no, I'm not going to volunteer to do anything else. I have enough to be doing with HBO this month.
But it was like day and night in fairness. I pay for that service, but it's well worth it.
Very much so. So, um, playing text programming, Harry Larry is doing a series on that. And,
um, he mentioned the one of the comments for the previous episode. What do you mean by
playing text programming? And he's done an explanation of what he considers a playing text program.
And yeah, it is what I said, it is on the tin. So very good. Yeah, I thought that might have been us
last month saying, well, this is great, but what's it? Well, is a playing text program exactly?
Yeah, but I hope it wasn't us. I mean, that would be awful. Well, I actually, when I heard
this one, I thought, he's answering, dude, do you think you were the first person to see the
last month's scene? What does that mean text plan? I've never heard of it before.
Yeah, I think so. So much the better. It's a great explanation.
Yeah, it was. And actually, I liked how in depth it was, you know, it wasn't like he said,
you know, it's militant to this, this, you know, it actually said, well, it can be quite a
quite broad. And he kind of gave the kind of what he would class as a parameter for it. Yeah,
I thoroughly enjoyed this show. Yeah, it becomes a, it is now a thing. It's official.
So the following Monday, we have lucky by our family business. I like how you pronounce that.
You got it right. Yes. I don't know. That's a constant appropriation or pulling the piss there.
You know, it's a thin line between pronouncing the right or doing it or, uh, or, uh, or does.
Hope it being, being north of the border and Britain, that's a pity to mine when I hear the CHB
pronounce like a hard kid. No, no, that's just wrong. Ah, yes, yes. And there were two comments on
this. Uh, I'll do the first Steve Barnes said, ah, yes. Lovely to perceive at least one other
Nintendo fan among the HBOR circles. Well, Steve, how about you do a show of a serial Nintendo
fandom for us, what don't you? We could even have a series. Dave, what do you think about that?
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think that you're giving me an excuse here to buy more consoles.
Sounds fun. How much pit does this guy have? I was thinking, like, poor, poor old, uh, poor old
Kevin, he must have been, must be broken with all these, uh, all these, uh, gaming machines that
you have up there. Yeah. And actually, this might get me blacklisted from doing another HPR
episode. But, uh, the other thing about, uh, Lucky Boy is he is also a fan of the Xbox series. Oh,
yes. Well, a lot of my hard earned cash has gone there too. Oh, I could just put all these gaming
lights. I could just picture like all the cut back to a, uh, a pan shot of your house and the
wind over the lock. Yeah. And then you turn all the equipment and all the lights and all the
nervous calls turns off. Lucky boy. Yeah, that sounds bright. In the movie, at least in the movie.
Dave, do you want to do the next comment? Yes, I will. Yes. Um-hmm. Cardio says, virtual boy question mark,
which is, I wonder what that meant when I first read it. It was a really lucky boy. Thanks for this
episode. Quite enjoyable. However, maybe I missed it, but I didn't hear the Nintendo virtual boy
mention. Yes, it's rather infamous, but it was, uh, an interesting attempt at a VR headset by
Nintendo for games, even if it did mess up your eyes with the red and black vector like graphics.
And it gives a link to the virtual. No, I did not know this. I was assuming it was, uh, uh,
a bit of a, uh, uh, floor because I don't even remember that after good face. Well, there's a
request for a show if I ever heard them. Yes, absolutely. Please do fill us in on the likeness
what the virtual boy was because genuinely, I had no nothing about this. Well, I'm just looking
at the image now and it really looks 1980s sort of 90 and then seen 1995 is just really very early
stuff. I don't know if this is, uh, am I remembering this wrong, but did it Nintendo release
in the 80s? Like a robot that would actually play against you or something. It was something to do
with like, I can't remember it, but I didn't remember it. I didn't know anyone that knew them.
They were stupidly expensive, but I'm pretty sure there's something back in my mind that says,
but a robot you played against. Monaze. Only there was another Nintendo expert on the network
who could enlighten us with their wisdom. I may have to go ask him to be through the next
or do a, uh, Steve and Lucky Boy can do a, uh, do a collaboration episode.
Oh, that could be fun there, yes. Yeah. And the following day, we had my first
on-camp experience. And this was one of the ones that I myself missed on the downloader thing.
So I went back and listened to it last night. Very enjoyable. And it was by you, of course,
Kevin. And it was great to hear this. I think totally forgotten about the dinner. Oh,
cool. Yes, yes. I was sitting there thinking, thanks, Kevin, if you're throwing me under that bus,
but I didn't really think that. No, no, it's my own bloody fault. Same. That was good last time,
five years ago, and you got fed last. Yeah, and I was just actually quite thankful to be honest
that, you know, it wasn't something, but he also suggested it to make you walk all that distance.
I'm like, no, he said it himself. No one to blame for himself. No, no, no, yes.
It was, it was fun though. We had a few last. I'm really, sorry, go ahead. No, I've gone.
No, I really enjoyed our cup. It was, it was really enjoyable. The, the starting at the, on,
on the, uh, intentional tour that we did on Scottish islands or the border areas,
how the lower dollars, it was not stopping. Yeah, we missed bigger. We, we aimed for bigger,
but we missed it by some means or other. We were slightly smaller.
You, you must have gone down the beef tub, brood, does they call it locally?
We did you go through brooding on that? Yeah. We went through Kanwath and, uh, whatever.
The, the, the Lanark, Lanark Road, we took. Oh, you, oh, you're okay. You cut it, I thought you might have
gone a bit too far east, but you actually cut across more west than on a, on a very small road.
Well, my, my house is not very far away from the Lanark Road and Kenbury kind of came,
picked me up. So, uh, so yeah, yeah. But, but it, I've discussed this with my son, uh, and I said,
I hate, um, what I call GPS, everybody calls satnav in this country. Uh, when it says in 300 yards,
turn left and you think, well, what the hell is 300 yards? I don't know what it is. He says,
I never, never have the, the voice on because it just confuses the hell out of me. I just have,
you know, the picture of where the hell that turned. Because then it's obvious. And we, we did
the classic one of in 300 yards turn left and we turned the first left rather than the second left.
And, and, uh, that resulted in a downfall. Oh, yes. Yes. Yeah. You made the mistake of actually
listening to the sign. That's a problem. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yes. No, no, very useful.
Well, the following day, we have, we have, we have, we actually have two comments on this and I've
released had one live come in. So I'll let somebody else to the first one. I'll go the second one.
I do solo spider said, I'll come dining experience. Kebi, this fellow scatman has lived in Kentucky,
USA for 25 years. And I have learned on my dialing experience here and visiting home that for the
most part, service is more responsive here. It probably comes down to the service basically working
for you in your tips. So they want to give you good service, more general statement. As, of course,
there are a few exceptions like the three which is pub in Inverness, where we and our families
had wonderful meeting together. It was quite champion. And you're coming in person. And the
comment number two has actually literally just come through just just right now. It's from Gadi
on Telegram. He sent this. And he's actually given me this backup, this feedback on the actual
episode. Thank you so much for your feedback on each PR. Kebi, really great to hear you enjoyed it.
Kru and I had that retrospective call today and will definitely take some of the stuff around
timings and to account. Oh, there we go. Kru, I love the bill. Go, so I literally, that just pinged
as you were talking about the episode. So it was like, that's facial feedback.
And we're missing loads of comments on these episodes on Masterdown as well. There's a lot of
conversations, good conversations going on there that we're missing. So yeah, as part of the
discussions actually, I had, I don't know if you've listened to the episodes where I was talking
to Dan and I was also talking to other people about this and I didn't record a lot of the
conversations, people who develop their own Fediverse stuff or have similar projects to the
Fediverse about creating and capturing the comments. And we, we have to get permission. So we can't,
we can't just read from the header and go, yeah, if somebody has opt out in their header,
we can't just take the comment and make it CC by essay. We have to get permission. It's kind of
the better safe than sorry, you think. So with that in mind, the Masterdown integration
is, is something that we want to do. But thoughts, your thoughts on it. And I think to
did just on the HFIR channel, Dave, on the jam channel, we had Norris had, oh yeah,
you're right up on that. Oh, it was a bug report, but that bug should be actually a Wikipedia
around a page on the wiki. Let's do that as well. Yeah. Okay, I'll make a note. Give me one second.
Yeah, so there's that. Let's come back to that later. Oh, I know. Actually, let's talk about Masterdown
stuff. So by the time we read this on the HFIR wiki, there will be a discussion section about that.
Please give us your feedback. However, you want to give us your feedback on that topic
about getting comments into from Masterdown into the HFIR database, where they've been on,
or at least how we can summarize them. Or if somebody wants to follow the HPR thread on
or what's going on and make a synopsis for us every month, but that's like a big ask
of somebody to humanly, a human to do that. Don't mention the word AI. Thank you.
Anyway, following day, some guy in the internet snaps a better than flat packs.
I was listening to this episode thinking to myself, is he trying to focus or just take
or what? I wrote down this sounds like a 15 minute joke. Yeah, but I don't know if I was right.
Actually, I have to confess, I'm very impressed with the HPR community. I thought for sure
this was going to leave a hundred comments about where heavily profanity lays in.
Yeah, well, I think the community has a fair idea of where some guy in the internet
comes in on the human scale. So try and comment it, the internet cable. The problem with the
internet cable is that most is all twisted up inside. You need to regularly unplug one from the
wall and then young hard on the cable to help the conductor straighten themselves. Thank you.
B-O-F-H and there's a link to who they are to that. And thank you, some guy in the internet.
Now I need to figure out how to get my discord snap to update properly, smiley face.
Very good. And I just think about the comment coming in now, but we can read that next month.
So was that it, Dave? Or how many months are we traditionally putting in to October?
They're not another day. Oh, fine. Android tracker and automation. And if I'm not mistaken,
this was another one from the reserve queue. We used quite a few up on the reserve queue,
this one. Well, you're talking about this episode. I will see how many we have left in the reserve queue.
Yes. So this was a operator doing his thing of having read wonderful methods of doing stuff
that you sort of look at and go, oh, you do that. Well, I do, anyway. And yeah, he points to a website
where you can go and download a bunch of things to do what he can do. So yeah, fascinating stuff.
The tasker thing seems quite cool, but unfortunately you need a route access on your Android device
to really do a lot of them. Yeah, I mean, I was actually listening through this thinking.
It's one of those things. It sounded cool. It sounded, you know, like something I would really
be keen on. But again, it's just one of those things. We have that little thing called time.
Alas, pin the cast. So I think that was it for the shows this month. Yeah, that was it for
this month. Yep. Yep. If you happen to listen to any of those or a few of them, skip your radar,
go back and download them and apologies for the unnecessary outage. I have thoughts on that,
but I won't share them with you. So we have comments from previous shows which we've read out,
and we've got one additional comment on Harry Larry's episode.
Thanks for the comments. Comment number five. This was on the episode
zero one plain text programs by Harry Larry and Harry Larry himself replies.
I really appreciate anyone who took the time to comment. Sorry, I didn't respond sooner.
I guess I'm spending too much time on Masterdown. I also want to thank the host
of the HBR community news. Questions were asked. Good questions.
I have decided to do a lot of the plain text program podcast is to try and answer these questions
specifically and go into more details describing plain text programs. That's why I did my introductory
time episode. So very good there. So there you go. It just shows if you actually want to ask
something, ask it. The only thing they say, the only daft question is the one that's not asked.
All stupid questions. I'm just stupid people. Possibly not. That's good.
How good? Did I do the next one? This was the two show for two double one by operator,
and he was talking about neurodiversity and stuff, TV and movies. Sun Sunyat Babu.
Sunyat Sen, presumably. Eurodiverse film is the title of the comment, and the suggestion is
Lilo and Stitch. I've never seen that one last time. Oh, I have, but that was the 90s, wasn't it?
Lilo and Stitcher? I think it was. I really don't know actually. It was in like a blue kind of
koala beard with the girl. An alien creature or something that would escape from some planet.
I haven't watched it, but it was on in the same room that I was, because my sister was watching it.
That's why I'm asking you to do that. I'm sticking to it. But yeah, yeah, I don't get, I don't see,
I don't understand the illusion really, but that's probably my shortcoming rather than anything else.
And there was a comment on my episode, Making Waves, the whole Retract from Section 21, about
Satom, the MT, the MT. Satom looks really cool. Thanks for a great interview. Why are you very
welcome? It wasn't me. Although it was taken by people's noses and they talk. It's cool. That's
good stuff. Can we, do you want to do the next one? I'll do the one after that.
Sorry, I'm sure my new penis here. What's your next new comment?
The humor. Our Dave, a few other than you do. Yeah, I'll do it. This is a comment on show 4216
and from Reito, the humor is entitled. I wanted to say that I like your humor. This was some
going internet show. It's a good thing not to lose your humor even in a serious topic.
In regard to the comment above from Beezer, a couple of months ago I heard similar
behaviour because of lords in China. Think about such controllers as also known as governments
what you like in 2024. So this is about down the rabbit hole where he's talking about good
Samaritans, lords, specifically where some kids filmed somebody drowning and didn't help.
To which I respond, view from an L. This is me personally. My views do not necessarily represent
those in the HVR General. I have discussed this episode with several people here in the Netherlands
and after the initial shock that such a thing would happen, we got down to why the attitudes were
so different. In a society where health insurance is mandatory and liability insurance is almost
universal, then the concerns of presented for not acting are essentially eliminated and I give you
links to living in Holland what insurance is you required to. The culture is also different.
As an example, each company is strongly advised to have safety staff as trained marshals.
During the training I was told that we would not be held responsible for any mistakes that we made
as long as we did it in good faith and I give a link to that and I was actually well prompted
this article. I was interested to see that you can be prosecuted for neglecting to offer assistance.
In this case, some gentlemen were having a feud and one of them was one alleged gang leader
was trying to drown somebody and his accomplice was standing by and didn't help. Therefore,
the guy who was standing by is getting prosecuted. Different attitudes in different countries
to different things. It's sad that the fact that people actually have to think back like that,
you know, just think about litigation etc. I mean, I don't know. The prime additions, maybe
the way I'm wired, but the prime really thing for me would be, can I see this person's life, you know?
Yeah, but that's all very well, you know, but again, you come from a country where you've got
the health insurance and you're not going to be taking on the bills of somebody else that's
a different, it's all very well. We do it's like that here. Not criticizing you, just saying to
myself when I was thinking about this episode, I was thinking, yeah, well, it's all very well,
for us to be like that. But if I went out and somebody got knocked down and I'm responsible for
for their medical expenses now, yeah, that's a different, that's a different, different
kettle of fish than this. Oh, totally. I mean, I don't know criticizing or seeing that will
have been better in any way. I'm just thinking it's more than that you're a human reaction,
you'd hope would be. You would. How can I help? Yeah. Okay, and oddly enough, I was a bit shocked
at that because every American that I've met and I've met a few, Binder, I'm, you know, I would have
just assumed they would help me out and probably would because, you know, I have medical insurance,
weird. Okay, not weird, just this is, this is good to have episodes because it makes you think
and that is always a good thing. Is that all this good thing? Now I'm thinking about that.
Well, it makes you think. Shall we go on to, by the way, Kevin, we're on episode 4241, the link
which I'll put into the mobile chat right at the minute. No, it's okay. I've got 4241. Yep.
And then at the bottom of that, we have like the mailless discussions, which I'll open the link
to now. And there was a several comments, which we need to talk about. The first one,
Guigi. Sorry, before we carry on, that link's not. Don't send me the link, I don't know,
in the chat here, sorry. One second. Thank you. I'll send you the link to the mailless
thread as well. So we generally just read off the mailless threads, like we do the comments,
just starting at the first run and working away down. I see, I was being the total noob. He
was me flicking in between different shows for the comments. So that's why I was a bit caught
out when you said, what would you next comment? I think it shows us all. I don't adhere to Dave's
Morion. The notes on whatever note was meant to act as a script for the show during the recording.
And then I switch off all the scripty bits when it gets released. But you need to
played by my rules and understand the inside of my head to work with it.
Kendo's. Sometimes we get comments that shows that we go through the shows like you've done,
and then we read the comments underneath that. But sometimes there are comments from
previous shows that we haven't got to. And sometimes the ones in green, which you see,
we have got to because there are already mentions on the previous episode. In a way,
you're doing it's just the way we roll. So now we're on the list.pacarpopicradio.org,
Pythromale, sparse.hpr, forward slash 2.0, 2.4, dash a couple of letters,
all for October, forward slash thread.hima. And I'm looking at the first run from Claudio. Does
Steve, can you read that out? Yep, and I'll do my own.
Claudio says greetings or clearance if anyone has been having issues downloading HVR episodes
as of last week. I know that the internet archive is up at an attack and the data bridge from
said attack which brought everything down for the end of that week seems to be up in read only mode
though. It gives a link to stuff about the internet archive. I wonder if this is what's affecting
the downloads, the episode as of then. Since HVR 4224, I've not been able to download any episode
going forward. I can't even play them online from the HVR website. Just thought I'd mention this
in case others were experiencing the same thing to which I replied. The IAA had a data bridge
and were under DDoS attack. They took the decision to take their service offline to order
and bring them up in a control fashion. We hope they will be back today but they are not.
We are organizing two host shows from other locations. And Claudio replied. Thanks for the
update Ken, much appreciated. And then I replied saying we have a workaround in place for current
and future shows. This brings to the fore the desire to have a HVR mirrored on a CCDN,
which is a CDN by the community, community, content, delivery, network, or if you're old school,
website mirroring. We've been working for some time and having everything on the HVR site
available for download. The idea would be to ask volunteers to arsink the site on a daily basis
and serve the files when requested. Incoming requests would then be redirected to web servers
from the pool to start a round robin approach could be taken, which is you do it first then second
and third, first, second, third, etc. But there is scope for selecting based on geographical
nearest because we have now one in the US and we have one in Europe. So if you're interested in
doing this or you can get in touch with admin at hackerpublicradio.org, you will need to have
the following. It fixed IP address on limited bandwidth or equivalent of fast, greater than 200
megabits per second speed, terabyte of storage at least, and most importantly, permission to run
this from the people who are serving us and people who are paying the bills. Okay, Claudio says
just synced up and tenipod and it was able to download all the episodes up until today's episode.
So it seems to be working. Thanks to the HVR custodians and admins regards Claudio.
And I replied to the HVR feeds have changed to the HVR community content delivery network.
So please keep your eye out for issues. You can report them on the metrics room.
We do not report them here. I also have not amassed them in order to prevent spamming the list
and basically exposing us publicly. Thank you very much. And the website ones had not been switched
at the time of writing. They have now. So that was all about that. And the current status is we have
one network up and running. The second one is going to be built. We have some weird firewall issues
that we're dealing with. But we'll get that in place. We also are missing some of the text files
for the translations. As part of this, we're going to be making the MP3 hog speaks and opus available,
which means we will be having an opus feed shortly. And as we're going to be distributing the
translations or the show number. What do we call that? Where you put it into whisper and you get
text out. It's called a... No, the next one we've got is from you again. Ken, this is policy change
class transmission. Sorry. We will have a transcript feed as well. So no audio just a transcript.
And question to people, would it be useful to add the SRT subtitle files to the RSSB
going out question? Just asking. Asking for a friend. You can do the next one go first. Or actually
the next one is from me as well. The next one is from you, yeah. Okay, HPR policy change,
clarification contributions are CC bias A4.0 unless otherwise stated. High all, one goal of the HPR
of HPR is to have an archive of everything related to the show available so you can download it
locally for offline use. In discussions, discussing the amount mastered on integration,
license for the comments also came up. To clear up any confusion, I would like to explicitly state
that everything submitted to HPR is CC creative commons by... So attribution share like 4.0.
So that will mean replacing the disclaimer on every page, taking away unless otherwise stated
our shows are released on the creative commons blah blah blah blah and changing it to unless
otherwise stated our content is released on the creative commons blah blah blah license 4.0 CC bias A4.0.
This will cover comments but also enough limited to shows where people just include a link to
their blogs with something like see here for sure notes, end of email. And then Kevin O'Brien
replied with sounds good to me. And DNT replies good exclamation mark. And Claudio says looks good to
me as well, thanks Kent. And Andrew Conway, that's fine by me too. Rowan says I agree to the change.
And Taj says sounds good to me. And Henrik Hemrin says yes I agree but I have a question first
who is responsible for that the license is made. I mean if some content does not meet the CC
bias A4 license but that is not stated to exemplify an included photo that is copyright but this
is not stated my question can apply to the current disclaimer. But I think more relevant when also
the comments are clearly included considering comments can be added by anyone. I hope you understand
my question and can tell me if my concern can be dismissed, explain somewhere or needs any
classification to which I reply. So who is responsible for the licenses met so the person who
uploads the content. I didn't go into the fact who is responsible for it is them but who will be
liable for it is me. So yeah that. And then with regard to his other question, not a lawyer but
the DNCA Digital Menlenium Copyright Act which is kind of the de facto internet thing
allows us to host stuff until the copyright claim is made. Then we would disable it investigate
and then remove the proven and restore if not in comment. However we have explicitly in our
upload for shows said no we are not taking copyrighted content so that whole spiel which was
specifically about shows is going to apply to HBR in general. Now if you have any comments on this
or you have disagreements or you have anything else to add to the argument please join the mailing
list and have your say because this time next month this will be HBR policy going forward.
Okay last call for comments on this thank you. And Dave sent in the community news and Dave can
you do the one after that? Hold on I can't seem to find it. Anyway yeah I sent in a message saying
hi or I'm planning to retire and quotes from the hacker public radio janitorial team.
I've been helping to administer HBR for over 12 years now. I first offered help to Ken
in 2012 in response to her appeal he made. We met I'll come in that year and I joined the
community news recording for episode 1066 into September 2012. My first show was 109-1 in
October that year. I will turn 75 in December 2024 and I'm finding that I don't have the energy
to do as much as I could when I first joined. I also want to be able to devote more time to various
personal projects I have. I plan to consolidate all my scripts on the HBR GTI repositories and
document all the processes I've been looking after. I want to have completed and over by the end
of March 2025 being the end of quarter one by the way. So I will continue as an HBR host for as
long as I can after that and I've had a wonderful 12 years as an HBR janitor. I'm going to always look
back on it with great pleasure the best wishes to all of the genitors.
And Claudio responds with thank you for dear Dave. Thank you for all of your work and contributions
to making HPR what it has been for so many years. It's been a joy to listen to you and Ken
during the HPR community news and hopefully that doesn't change even if you're hanging up your
custodial mock for HPR. Looking forward to hearing about all of your future projects as HPR
episodes down the road. Best wishes. Well done Claudio Elder and Kuyamiu says Dave enjoy your
retirement and good luck with your projects and thanks for all the fish. No adventure without
adversity. So Chad Black Knight of the No Agenda Round Table. And I think it appropriate that Dave
only does his own. So let's can you do Anthony W. Deton's one and I'll do Carl's.
Yeah no problem. So this is a G urine put and post best Tony A.K. Batman.
The next jazz. Oh sorry yes the next jazz yeah. And Carl D Hamman says I'm so grateful for
your work on the project. The effort you and all the genitors have put in to smooth the process
of contribution and listeners is truly an incredible achievement. Best all the best men and
and then we've got Brian Navarete. Thanks for all you have done to keep HPR going. Brian in
Ohio. And Andrew says Andrew my Andrew Conley says. Well you want me to do this one then you
can do your own. Yeah please yeah okay. Right so Andrew says Dave you have done a sterling job
efficiently quietly and always with good humour. Thank you and enjoy your retirement. So I did
one and I says. Having did on board was amazing. HPR would be dollar sign whatever HPR actually is
without him creating and building personal relationships with people. I would hazard to say that
he was instrumental in getting many involved in the project and keeping many more. Burmer me personally
I consider him to be a true friend. Behind the scenes is the sport of of me and my family during
many tough times which I would not have gotten through without his support. It was an absolute
pleasure to have had the chance to spend so much time with him over the on camp weekend and I look
forward to a repeat next year. In short Dave is a scholar and a gentleman and I have taken advantage
of him for far too long. I am therefore thrilled that he is stepping back and doing some other
stuff and I'm sure it will be done with the same dedication and skill that aren't his hallmark.
I suggest we break, ignore what Dave says and we should do the October ones related to this while
we're at it. I mean in November. In November even yes. We'll skip over the first one because it's
just too sloppy. The second one was from Kevin O'Brien. You will be sorely missed Dave. I am
completely understand your reasoning as I find myself cutting back a little as I get older.
You start to think in terms of what you most want to be with the time you have left to you
or maybe that's just me regards. I replied to that saying thanks for the kind words Kevin.
It's not just you though these thoughts are in my mind too. Get off my lawn!
So that was a bit of a bombshell and we'll say Dave to end the show.
It's well you know the reasons are there. I'm getting old man I'm getting old.
Yeah but it's good that you're going to still be knocking around and so yeah yeah if you need a
buddy on the community news and then I think I could offer to do that. Well the time. Yeah yeah
but yeah it's but the the other stuff it will be much as it's been an amazing time. Lots of lovely
things to do and problems to solve. My problem solving brain is sort of slowing down.
Thanks for your help a lot longer to solve them these days.
So yeah it's going to do something else that doesn't need to be brain-bound.
Exactly. So folks there will be changes coming to HBR. I don't know what those changes are.
Chose will continue to be posted but you're going a lot of the work with the formatting of the
show notes and stuff that Dave has been doing. It's going to have to be pushed back and people
when they're uploading. So there'll probably be some sort of a formatting editor thing.
What you see is what you get type javascript thing. There will be still be the option to go.
If you don't like javascript to go to and javascript will only be on the upload
form site. So hub.hackupupagradio.org not on the general HBR. We still won't be using javascript
but on the whole one there will be something like you know when you
an editor so that you can see the show notes because that's basically the problem Dave has been
trying to solve for and it's unsolvable Dave. Everybody has their own view on what the show
notes should be and should look like and whether they're links whether they're not links.
So that would help us a lot if we get rid of all the variations that we can have HTML
and whatever you just have the upload form and you format them in the upload form thing and
you press end and then that is what's going to come out if you choose to send in no show notes
then I will need to create the show notes and I don't have time for that so please send
in show notes. They're very important. Yeah absolutely and can I just actually add a big
huge thanks actually to Dave and we know okay I've not been actively involved in HPR for so long
for a very long time but I have been a listener for a very long time so I just want to say that
it's uh I really do appreciate everything that you do and we know that I mean I know we've
involved in different projects it's the things behind the scenes that can take so much time and
people don't even realise. Oh yeah no idea. Dave will work at a thing from 10 in the morning until
10 at night. Seven days a week just getting stuff for us working. It's the month of time and effort.
I mean this is all more ostentomy sometimes. Absolutely absolutely. This is one of the things I need
to teach myself not to do so much so that's partly why I'm organising. So yeah well thanks everybody
for all your lovely comments I really appreciate them and he's gone over so you'll still be hearing
possibly even more from Dave with Andy. Well I'm thinking this all these shows that I've
sort of run out of steam for I might have enough energy to do more bash things and
do more jq things and whatever so yeah we'll see yeah yeah yeah you better be careful otherwise
you might be too tired to retire you may be back you John. Give me my mop back. Order the
mop goes to Dave. Yeah. Do we have anything else in the events? I don't know. Any other business?
So HBR updates? Oh yeah just Ron has been working up a trooper going through all the
standing bugs that have been in thing. He were also due to a lot of changes with Internet
archive. Outage they're still impacting us. We did a quick fix to host the Dende fee directly
from the HBR server but since then we've made the media available. If you do have the ability to
you know hosting or you know somebody who's got hosting and will be willing to sponsor or whatever
not sponsor we don't do ads but we'll be willing to donate some hosting to us. That would be kind
of cool. It's all flat files so nothing nothing too crazy there. We've added some other changes
with it. We added updated the feeds so the feeds are all pointing to different locations obviously
hopefully that will remain constant and we have also added a comment on this episode link
to the RSS feeds so regardless of your pod catcher if you look at the description at the very
bottom there should be a comment on this episode link which hopefully will open the browser.
If it doesn't give us a screenshot of what what thing you're using for it and we will build we're
also building up more documentation. On that point we've consolidated a lot of the Git T-reports
basically because Dave is going now the mirror does it the window so we're having to document
a lot of stuff so a lot of the repos have been consolidated to there's now four repos related one
related to the hub stuff one related to the processing stuff and one related to generating the
website itself. We have the document and then there's the documentation wiki which has got
information about the CCDN about a proposal for HPR website designs and literally some white
boarding so I drew some ideas on the whiteboard with some arrows and discussion underneath that
and a sort of template or for the look and feel that I'm kind of going for based on a
liberal office slide that I did so have a look at that. Other pages that are up are the useful
resources page the requested topics page which I think should be on the on the wiki it should be
that easy to add to it it should also be possible to send something via mastodon to that in
and as we're recording the things you're going for bad to worse our HPR bot the instance of that
is shutting down as of next month so on the 15th of next month we at HPR bots and space.net
is gone so we need to move that somewhere if you know of anything please help somewhere where the
HPR bot would be welcome it's not so much a bot I yeah we want to do some bot stuff with it but I
actually also in the persona of the HPR bot respond physically as well so it's not just bot
pulse so there is interaction so bot only instances and going to be enough for us just as it
by the way so I hope that will be very much appreciated help on all of this stuff will be very
much appreciated so yeah that would be great and then we have Dave's retirement and that is it
for the show do we miss anything guys don't think so don't think so but I'm not the voice of
expediency after about 15 years and 12 years I couldn't believe it was 12 years did 12 years yeah yeah
scary isn't it link of a lie oh right on that somber note it's a good move Dave it's a good move
anything that has more shells coming in it's just fact that I need to basically replace you with
a bash script is not a good pick we'll get there we'll get there actually that sounds like an HPR
show itself you know I've been replaced by a bash script yeah it does I do not have the time for
bash scripts this month has been absolutely absolutely crazy with the internet I've been on
it happened of course when we were a bell camp and the the computer I have to do the author generation
was of course behind my firewall and of course I can get to it yeah so that was a stupid move
on my part but anyhow there's lots of rebuilding and redesigning and stuff going on
so it's an eight hour day of work and then another eight hours of HPR stuff we get all
hopefully we get that stable that would be cool would be cool to have
under the website and the emerge network would be a cool thing to build just also experience
while you're on your CV you know you're involved in building a community driven content to
every network if that doesn't get you an interview I don't know what will okay tune in tomorrow for
another exciting episode of hacker public you have been listening to hacker public radio
at hacker public radio does work today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it
leads hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honest host.com the internet archive and our
sims.net on this otherwise stated today's show is released on their creative comments
attribution 4.0 international license
