Episode: 4066
Title: HPR4066: HPR Community News for February 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4066/hpr4066.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:14:37

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,066 from Monday 4 March 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for February 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 69 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in February 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Falon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is HPR Community News for February 2024.
Joining me this evening is, hello, it's Dave, as always.
Well, no, almost always anyway.
Yeah, more always than me, so I think we simply say always.
And this is the HPR Community News show where we talk about what HPR is.
And you might think of it as like your online hacker space in podcast format.
And this is the Community News where the generators push down their mobs and come out from behind the bucket
and give you a rundown on all the news and gossip from around HPR towers.
So, Dave, as always, it falls to you to welcome our new hosts.
Yes, and I'm very pleased to say that we have a new host this month.
Oh, and that's a bring right now.
Noises off.
You can probably hear my noises off and I can't turn them up.
Anyway, our new host for February is Geospart, who I imagine some people will know.
We know from having met him at Orc Camps in the past.
And yeah, hopefully we're going to hear a lot more from him in the future.
It's really nice to have him on board.
So cool.
Cool, cool, cool, cool.
I was just listening to all of Glow World Order shows because
I wanted to look up something so I downloaded them all so I could do a transcript so I could look for
what it was that I was looking for.
Still haven't found it.
You know, one of those rabbit holes, shivering a yak, etc. etc.
And Clatu has an episode zero and I was thinking we should really have an episode zero here
on HPR that we all did from time to time with what HPR is and how to get involved in the community.
Yeah, so we're an introductory page or something like that.
Exactly, exactly, exactly.
I've had thoughts about that and perhaps I'll share with those with you in the future.
You've been the general HPR listener, not just Dave.
And if you, the general HPR listener and contributor, have ideas about what should be included in
that episode zero show, which is the idea is you update from time to time and you explain what
a HPR would be and all the important things.
But what are the important things about HPR that you would like to see in that show?
And see I speak of deliberately because perhaps we could make it a presentation for putting stuff
out to YouTube, which is something else I want to talk about later in any other business.
But then what we normally do here is we talk about the shows that have come on in the previous
month. So shall we, shall we start with that, Dave? Or was there anything else you wanted to say?
No, we can definitely start with that.
I think we need to stick to a formula today because I am extremely tired.
Okay, so I need to go, I need all that, I can get to get through this.
Yeah, yeah, let's try not to waffle too much then I guess.
So let's start by going through all the shows in the last month and
episode 40. If you find that if you just found HPR and find that we have too many shows,
what a lot of people do, what some people do at least, is they listen to these shows.
It's all our shows that have a series of got their own feed.
So people listen to this show and then selectively based on how we describe the show,
we'll go back once a month and download the episodes that they themselves might find more
interesting than others. One of them quite interesting was the episode 40, 44, which was Daniel
Pearson's advent of code day 11 to 21 catch up where he walks through the last
challenges of this year's advent of code that he actually did. And do you have any thoughts on that
before I continue off to do it? Well, I've been enjoying his analysis of these things.
I've had a little look myself, but I really don't have the brain or something
of the motivation to do any myself, but looking at how other people are doing them is very,
very fascinating. I found a guy who was doing them in VIM and I also, it's a weird and wonderful
text manipulatory things. So it's a wonderful resource and it could to be aware of it.
And it was interesting his approach to this and that he kind of was uninspired.
And I think he was saying that in order to keep the AI out of us, they've met it really more
about maths than about code. So yeah, if you're not really into maps, then it's a whole different
world than some of the touch problems in the past. I think some of the early models as
far as I can make out. So yeah, I'd sympathize with that. It's a bit of a shame that it's turned
into a particular format that's not going to appeal to everybody. Yeah, but I think these things
when ever a new disruptive technology comes out, people have, it takes a while for everything to adjust.
So let's see how this adjusts. Yeah, yeah. So the next day, Swift 110, brought his MacBook
Pro 15 into the canteen for us to have a look at. And there was one comment from Norris,
and he said, maybe the best laptop ever. I have the same 2015, 15 inch MacBook Pro.
It was issued to me on work and they let me keep it when I got an upgrade. Even though it's
nine years old, it's still more than capable of being a daily driver. A few years ago, I switched
from Mac OS to Fedora. Yes, all the hardware supported except Bluetooth. When I first tried
Linux on, I installed Fedora on the com drive and would install, remove the drive based on which
OS I wanted to boot. Very cool. Yep. My son is a Mac book devotee. So I'm well aware of the
advantages and some of the disadvantages, but you know, it's good to drive. I mean, nuts.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't want my myself, but yeah, it looks really nice. I'm glad to hear about you.
So the following day was the community news for our last month. So we post community news show
on a day that seems logical, which is the first Monday of the month.
Yes, we've refined before about about that one. Do you want to read the answers?
Archers 72 says new pipe video player. It was only until I heard this show that I learned of
another repo in ETH droid to get the latest build of new pipe. And in the process,
discovered another ETH droid app, Clipius, for playing in videos videos. So thanks.
Good. Oh, that's a good tip there. I think it was going to end a comment, wasn't I? I could
have been called in a day. Or too busy looking for a cigarette lighter or a smoking or pipes.
Absolutely. Change your password once in a while. Delta ray provides a compelling
arguments for why you should change your passwords periodically. And I think in this one,
it's not about changing the passwords that you use on websites, which you should be doing
regularly, anywhere, password manager, unique one for every site. It's that super master password
that you use on your password manager, to which he's referring to, or the read password that you
have on all your machines because, you know, just in case. And yes, I did take that on board,
and I'm now feeling guilty. Yeah, yeah, it's good advice. And it's what I would give if I was
asked, but never half, of course. But yeah, and he also gives us a nice little pipeline to build
XKCD like passwords, I think, isn't that? Yeah. Yeah. Joining together a bunch of words to make a
passphrase. Yeah, it's that look command I had never heard of that before. No, me neither.
We are dealing here with Delta Ray, who is one of the gurus of the command lines. So,
yeah, very, very good. There is, though, here's my interjection, which I should have written as a
comment. There is a thing called XKCDPWD, I think, which I installed some time ago, which does,
does this? Just, just straight from that. I don't know if you're sure on the topic.
That was it. You just heard it. Yeah, it's, it's, the principle is great. It's really,
really good. I very much applaud it. But yeah, and I'm not going to be typing that pipeline very
often, I suspect, but anyway, good. And the following day, we had Trey with a brief description
of ship's bells for timekeeping. Now, Trey during this episode expressed some doubt as to whether
this was appropriate for Hacker Public Radio. And let me assure you that this is right up
or proverbial harbor. So yes, more of this type of thing. Yeah. Fascinating. Absolutely, absolutely.
I actually dropped him a note as I was preparing the, I think we, there was some other conversation
going on and I said, oh, I really like the look of your show. I'm looking forward to that. And he
seems to be a little bit surprised that that I was enthusiastic about it. But yeah, it's excellent.
How many times have we heard this stuff? I never really understood it. How many, how many times
have I, not we, perhaps, because I used to read nautical books and I was a youngster, you know,
hornblower stuff. And there's loads of that sort of stuff. And I just, I just, just, just
sailed past. I didn't know. Yeah, I know, I know, well chosen a, hey, hey, but yeah, it's,
I do know what a binicle is and I know what a male inspired is and them sort of things, but I don't
know what this was. And this is brilliant. Absolutely wonderful. Clinton Roy says, Uncle, I love this
episode. I would welcome more like it. Absolutely. Brian and Ohio then says, great show. Love this
show. Please do more in anything to do with timepieces. Dogwatch is the best defined by Stephen
Maturin in the Patrick O'Brien master and Commander novels. Oh, yeah, yeah. I forgot about them.
He said they called them dogwatches because they are curtailed, of course.
Marsful play on words. Dogwatches are used so that watch times would naturally move to each watch.
No one gets stuck doing all the late shifts. Brilliant. The only frustrating thing about this
episode was I was doing some woodwork at the time. And I thought, okay, there's going to be one I'll
be able to listen to, but I had to stop what I was doing in order to listen to it. So I want to
actually go back and reread it or really listen to it again. Yes, yes. Excellent. That could be
a series. Yes, indeed. I think he said something to the fact that he's got more in the locker or
something wrote locker, perhaps, to tell us about. But yeah, looking forward to it. And the notes
are great too. He I think he wrote out his pretty much his script there. So that's a good thing.
Yeah, fantastic. The following we had Swift 1 10 with Watson My Bag for January 2024 and Watson
My Bag is a standard show we ask people to do if they're if you're walking around with
text or what's your essential kit that you carry. And from time to time people do these shows
and from time to time people update these shows, which is also great. See Swift 1 10 has moved to
USBC everywhere, which is a boom actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a good subject. It's a good subject.
It's interesting just getting inside and out of people do things. You never know. You might learn
something new. Excellent. You could do a trace comment or as it was my turn. Yeah, yeah. I think it's
your turn. I think I did. Yeah, Trace has a great reminder. Thanks for posting this. I was moving
things into my office closet and found my work bag from before I worked from home. This is a great
reminder for me to record my Watson My Bag episode. Maybe further reserve cube. Thanks straight,
looking forward to it. Oh, it's me. Oh, come on down with something there. It's called
APRI to something. Yeah, yeah. If you mention this, then we have playing Alpha Centurie Part Five
tips for playing Alpha Centurie by Ahuka. And yeah, don't play games myself, but this it was interesting.
It sounds actually very much like role playing games and this sort of games are ways of getting
people to do maths. Yeah, there's lots of layers to these things much more so than I've personally been
very aware of. So it's good to get this sort of inside. I'm not going to play the game particularly.
There are no people who do, but yeah, it's it's good to know. I tend to get stressed playing games
rather than relaxed by it, but yeah, yeah, maybe I can recommend a nice game for relaxing. That
would be good. But yeah, but I do. I really am enjoying all that aside and Kevin North. I am
really enjoying this this entire series and I'm doing all of Kevin's series so far has been very
enjoyable. Absolutely. Speaking of, hey, look at what cool stuff I have.
Kevin has brought to the canteen the MSI Gun Gunner 110 review. So a PC case by MSI. And I was a bit
surprised by this. It's a part that people are doing still building PCs and they're like,
ah, okay, okay. Well, I would listen avidly to this because I'm interested in building a new
desktop PC within the year. And I don't think I'd go for that case because I want to have more
disks in than it would cater for. But yeah, I do it. In fact, my daughter just built herself for
her own desktop machine having a problem with it. Mind you, but you know, she just said,
right, I can do this and I will. And so she did. There are sites that will tell you, give you advice
on how to what goes with what and how to build particular things based on certain, you know,
the CPU and the GPU and that type of thing. But so she went one of those and ordered all the
bits and built them. So yeah, I was thinking, ah, what were you thinking about? I was thinking of,
I have an old Dell case here and it's been here for the best part of two years. And my intention was
to somehow use the case itself as a case. And put all the Raspberry Pi's that I have, you know,
for cluster and for bits and pieces, you know, for what we use for HPR and stuff. Inside said case,
feeding off the one power supply, cooled with, you know, a large silence, you know,
cooling fan, three inch or whatever cooling fan. Yeah, 120 millimeter fan by two as looking
at the diagram. Well, I've never actually got that entire plan off the ground. Or maybe put in
a little mini ITX case, you know, boredness. And then like, though, having one of those big
cases, there's plenty of space for housing Raspberry Pi's or something else inside of everything
fed off the one power supply. Yes, if somebody has thoughts on that, we have to feel free to do a show.
I can't remember if Jeff Galing, whose YouTube channel I follow has done one of those. He has
done those sorts of things of making pie clusters and the like, I think he went for rack mount,
sexually, some sort of 3D printed rack mount thing. But yeah, this is worth having a look at some
of the stuff he's done with with multiple Raspberry Pi's. I was thinking something like on the
PCI cases, you know, PCI slots, perhaps, but no, you thoughts in the comments of this episode
are better yet as an episode yourself. The following day in Geospart in self-deprecating a slightly
boring story of my introduction to Linux, how he got into Linux micro edition. And there is one
comment. Yes, before that, I, the notes I wrote about this was I've chanted with George few times,
not huge lot, but he say he's an knowledgeable fellow. I hadn't realized his experience when
as far back as it does. So he, um, he's somebody I would really like to hear more from on HBR,
obviously, but to, you know, some of his history in more detail would be, would be fascinating stuff,
I think. Yes. And if you, uh, I guess if you're wanted to know who he is, look at any photo from
on camera, he's the one take away Les Pounder and he's the other one. Yeah, yeah, he's
very, very helpful guy. Yeah. And all the way from two to all sorts of bizarre places in the UK
from, uh, from Faraday's is something to go for as well. He was in worked for Radio Shack and
used us to warp. Man, that, that still gives me scary nightmares. Yeah. So one comment, I think it's
my turn to say, yeah, Faraday. Freeplay says excellent episode. I love these kinds of episodes. They're
always so relatable. When I want to relax during a drive or while doing something around the house,
this is the exact kind of content I hope to see in the HBR feed, looking forward to more submissions
to you, but you're well spoken and have an interesting background. There you go. In fact,
I was shocked that he wasn't already holstered. You know, well, yeah, I know what. I just,
what? Yeah. So came in and I was going, hold on, let me go back here. Maybe, maybe,
sometimes their HBR, no, I can't find them on the HBR. Let me look in the database for, uh,
no, no. Yeah. I know. Same, same here. I didn't look, but I thought, that's really surprising.
So anyway, third party integrations connecting your applications with others is from the
year. It was a brilliant episode. So brilliant. In fact, that I can continue some other shows referring
back to this one, which is absolutely, absolutely excellent. And very, very, uh,
upper poll that this show will come in at exactly the time it did because I had just built a,
a bash script to do the all of challenge and stuff for this. So it fits right in with this.
So I don't need to go through the whole explanation show of how third party integrations work. So
I can submit my show and just refer back to this brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. Yeah, yeah,
we've not heard a huge lot on this subject in the past. It's something that we all,
if we're working in IT at various levels, will either see happening down the corridor or
be the recipient of or actually be working at the cold face making happen. And yeah, certainly
had this experience, but but a long time ago, I think they're very different, but still really
interesting stuff. Very, very, very good. This is my day job. So yeah, that's why I'm so tired
because I was just doing this sort of stuff until 11 o'clock last night.
Oh, good. That is exactly the type of show I do not want to be doing because.
That's work. No, it's it, but this is, this is great, great stuff. But more, more of the same thing,
thank you very much. Keep on coming or more on something completely different. Speaking of which,
Cyberpunk, punk 2077. And on me, we missed a comment. Oh, we did. We did. It's a comment on this one.
And that was from, is it my turn? I think it is. It is. Yeah. Yeah. From Katie Murray, Pete says,
great overview. This was a really great overview on how these integrations work.
So much as I've used them before, I never really stopped to think about how the old,
old handshake actually works. Yeah. Good. I just found the templates. It's, if ever you see that
Google or you know, sign in with Google or sign in with whatever, there should actually be another
button. They're signing with some other odds provider because it's, it's always intended to be an
open, that's the old from all of an open protocol. And it's not, it's not that hard to implement.
It's not that hard. Yeah, but it is hard to implement correctly. So I'll give you that. Yeah. Yeah.
I didn't have a work with this because in the university's world, it was things like Shibboluth,
another strange authentication protocol that were all the rage. Shibboluth is very, very strange.
I thought anyway, but I think all of it's a little cleaner from what little I've seen of it. So
yeah, interesting subject though. Very. So cyberpunk 2077, another game, again, we could do with
somebody here on the community news who's into games to come up to these days. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's very, very appropriate. On all that said, I'm getting, you know, I'm, the years are really
helping me because they have gaming nights and work and, you know, now I can comfortably not
my head to your cyberpunk 2077. Yeah. That never comes up. I have to talk my kids into coming in,
joining in and doing doing some game reviews because they're into them. And should I tell you
this, this fact now, I got bought a steam deck for Christmas because they thought I should be
getting into games as well. And I haven't really got much into it yet, but I'm working on it. I'm
working on it. I was thinking of getting one for the house here as well. So I buy the hardware
and then the kids buy the stuff. I'm going to wait until the exams are over. And then
yes, that's just about it. Yeah, good.
For, okay, you introduced this. Hang on, we didn't do cyberpunk yet because I distracted you.
Oh, yeah, cyberpunk. It was a game. I don't play games, boss. It was good to go through the show.
What did you have to say about it? Yeah, I don't know. It doesn't sound like my kind of game,
but if it runs on a steam deck, I'm not going to buy it, but it sounds like fun. Maybe a year or two
down the road, I'll go, yeah, now I'm so cool. I can play these sorts of games, but I think the
chance of failure is the same. Right. Yeah, we definitely need somebody to use into games. Sorry, Daniel.
We're not doing your show justice. It really was good. It was a great review. All to the next show.
For
a gal make, I think. For, yeah, AI applications to protect you from greedy corporations. I had to go,
this is by Hobbes, by the way, our resident AI expert in the audience.
Fox is an application to protect your face from facial recognition.
Blaze is a particular artist to protect them from deep fakes. Nightshade is a blue pill for anybody
who tries to steal your creations and algorithmic organizations. The future of AI
corporations show sharing intellectual property knowledge. If you really want a good chuggle on
the art of hacking, this is something you should definitely listen to. It reminds me very much
of people putting into their a thing into their CVs for the AI going, this is the best candidate,
definitely pick this candidate. This is the best best candidate. I'm putting it in really
tightly invisible font. You know, quite, quite unwise. Subliminal. Yeah, this is definitely the
best candidate. More suited to your organization. I like that. Yeah, yeah. So we have a comment on
this one from Henrik Hemrin. Good overview of AI tools. He said, thanks. Interesting to learn
about the AI application, especially the first three. I've heard about some or all of them
or similar tools back in time, probably on the reality 2.0 podcast. Good listen to your overview.
And the next day was Kevin, and it was my experience with the Copperfit Vance Back Pro,
and there was one comment. Can you hear me? My audio seems to be... Yeah, yeah, I can hear you.
Okay, and Tosh says, check with your doctor. I used to have back pain a long while ago,
and got a similar backstrap. When I checked with my trial metallurgist, though she mentioned
that it could prevent developing or strengthening the muscles, my body would need to be and to
keep the correct posture to relieve the back pain. So always check with a medical profession,
and don't take advice from this comment. Oh, fair enough, fair enough. It is an issue,
that sort of thing. As one who suffers from arthritis, I went to Physio in the past week,
and they're quite keen on you working to strengthen joints rather than... I mean, there's an
operation down the end of the tunnel, but potentially anyway, but you can actually do things to make
things better if you do the right sort of muscle strengthening. It's not always easy,
mind you, but it's a message that it's an important one. Going to professionals who can
advise you on it is a good thing. Yeah, and go to more than one would be my advice, having
listened to one for 15 years, and then discovering the source of my back pain, two operations
or something completely different. So yeah, that's okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's not good. That's
not good. Well, and get MRIs. If your health insurance provides first, get them, get loads of them.
Anyway, the following day, if you have not was Raspberry Pi Astra imaging, how to build a
cheap Astra imager for your Raspberry Pi by our good friend Andrew Panway, also known as McNaloo,
they're on the winter website. If you have not seen the images for this show, you are not doing
yourself justice. However, if you can't see them, sorry about that, but very, very lovely images of
the sun. And what's the next one is of Jupiter, and then the next one is of the night sky
time, time lapse photo, night sky focused on I think the north star, and then all the other stars
are smiling around that lovely imagery. Yes, yes, and I knew he was doing, I gave him a little bit of
help through you printing something. But he goes from a level that I sort of reasonably
comfortable with into into areas that I'm going, oh no, I don't understand this. I'm probably
good, but listening to the show, it was quite a leap forward. So yeah, all power to him is it's
an excellent show and some amazing work he's doing here. Very, very cool. I would love to hear
more about what that Raspberry Pi camera can do, but he had the advantage of this. I was thinking,
oh, you know, this would be fantastic, but you know, he has been able to have telescopes
himself that he can plug them into. It's not like you're going to go by our Raspberry Pi camera,
and then suddenly be able to get that quality of images. But yes, Tray says amazing images,
wonderful podcast and amazing images. As a photographer, I can relate to some of the challenges
you experienced, but I never considered how much they will be amplified in astro photography.
Keep up the amazing work. Good comment. Yes. And the following day, we had stash AF with a hobby circuit
from circuit Python, and included is the source code for this. Was this the one that we had the
issue with? Yes. What was the issue? This is the null value, one of the escaping. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
wow. Yeah, I think so anyway. Did the challenge know nothing at all that stash AF did,
but it was just putting the source code of the show in uses key combinations, the trigger,
the null character, which gets encoded in different ways on different systems, and then all of
a sudden we didn't have a valid XML coming out. What's what, but where, where, where, where,
why? So then we just think we encoded it some other way, but probably in future, we're going to
attach source code in general as a separate file onto the server. I was struggling with the images
on this one, so it didn't occur to me to, because it's quite a large chunk of code there to,
to just pass it up and stick it into a separate file linked from the notes, but I think it's
something if, if those can do it, then that would be great, but if not, then, then we can do it.
No, it's, it's, I know, to be honest, I didn't know, as I told you, I found out that the feeder broke,
why is it breaking there? Yeah, it's easily done, because you can't even see it, you can't
see the character, because it's a null character, it doesn't display anything, I ended up having to get
a hex editor to read it, so yeah, I've had this more than once in my career, where this weirdness
occurred, and I had just the feeling this is probably a null character, so anyway, but yeah,
other than that, very affordable as well, this was a great little episode on how to monitor sensors
in a particular room, and also using the onboard radio, I mean, I would have, my first thing to do
would have been, you know, get a Wi-Fi module or get an ESP32 or something like that and connect it
up your Wi-Fi, but not really using radio frequency on the thing itself, so fantastic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it wasn't low-rah itself, but it was a similar sort of concept, I think,
it was my understanding anyway, so yeah, but yeah, very good, and I'm amazed that there's a PCB
created along the way, and printed, and all that good stuff, yes.
Like an amazing world that we live in, here's the program I hack together, and by the way,
here's the Gerber files for printing off the PCB to go with it. Yeah, the world is changing very
rapidly, in some cases for the better, this is a good one. This is a good one, yeah.
Okay, the next day, Brian in Ohio sent in a show about the Southern Cross computer,
which was a ZDT derivative from Australia, a record. Yeah.
That's, yeah, it's a, did you say ZDT? Yeah, it's really quite a cool thing, isn't it? It's one of
these things where you can program it by working at what the assembler is, what the machine
code is from, from an assembler representation or whatever, and poking it into the memory,
and then by running it up and watching what it, what it does. So that's very cool. He didn't,
he did mention a device called Kim1, 6502 Kim1, because I did some of this back, you know,
worked at Lancaster University, we had a microprocessor group as part of the department, and they did
course on how to write 6502 thingies on one of these, and I think it was the Kim1 that we used,
but I don't wrongfully remember that, but a similar sort of device, but with the 6502 in the center
of it. Very, very cool. Very, very cool. And if nothing else, if ever I'm doing a cheap science
fiction movie, that thing will be the center console, you know, where the astronauts is desperately
trying to do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The coordinates to go home, you know, I made the early doctor who
didn't grab those, and they probably did actually, we just never noticed, all the lovely little push
buttons and stuff is very, very nice. Yeah. What a fun machine. So the following day, Mr. and Mrs.
Zahugat headed from Florida back up to Georgia, or Florida across to Georgia, from to move up to
Georgia. So there are excellent pictures in the show notes, as always. It's a picture of the truck
in amongst pictures. Yes. It gives you some idea of how gigantic the RV actually is. I mean,
it's like a, it's like in, you know, an entire house on wheels. But what a horrible thing it
must be to drive. I'm not sure I got a clear view from Hookah. I mean, he certainly said it was,
it was quite fatiguing to, to drive it. And he restricted us the way you go and what sort of
speeds you could do in that type of thing. And also, there's a road, if you don't want to be going
up long hills and stuff like that, I think. But yeah, I mean, it's luxurious. I'm sure when you stop,
but it seems enormously, enormously rude. Thank you. There's the European who's got small roads,
you know, when you go to the States, everything is bigger. Yeah. It's, it fits the, fits the country,
I guess. Mm-hmm. I certainly saw them when the kids to Yosemite and Grand Canyon and stuff,
there's quite a lot of them, particularly Yosemite going there, not around the area, because you
can't really drive on those around it, but to sort of truck parks. The people who had extra cars
on the back that they, that they then jumped in and zoomed off to, to go around the Yosemite area
and stuff. So yeah, we looked at that and thought, wow, that would be great. But then on the other
hand, we thought, well, we're doing okay. So yeah, we're stopping in hotels and driving between them
and things, you know. Yeah. It's, it depends what you want. Anyway, ours was cheaper probably.
I really enjoyed reading all the, all the pictures of the, the boards again in,
yeah, yeah, there's a lot of creepy guys with a weird hat. I know, I know, to go into America,
and you're doing a, yeah, to go and snip him out of those pictures, you know.
I was going to make a joke about, from one creepy guy to another, but I don't know Kevin
well, so I'll better end it that out and post. How to set up a pie hole, setting up an out blocker,
an extra security using raspberry pie hole. This was, did you get anything from this show? I know
you wanted to do something similar. Well, I have set up one before or years ago, but then
the change from raspberry into raspberry pie OS was, I think, was it to fail. But, yeah, so I'm in the
process of setting one up at the moment. So I've got a lot of it. And Kevin's really good at this.
You'd think he was a teacher or something. Yeah. Oh, oh, he is a teacher. But anyway, he's,
he's, yeah, it was really well done, sure, I thought it really covered all the, all the information
in an excellent way. So yeah, I did actually message him and say, I'm actually planning to
add another level to my pie hole, which is to add a local DNS, which is something that it's,
it will cater for quite easily. So, but Kevin didn't do that, but we had a little chat about it.
So yeah, very good. Actually, I'm quite interested in that one.
The, the unbound DNS. Yeah, because I'm thinking about setting up a separate network for
Internet of things and I've got home assistance started and yeah, I love a lot easier recently.
I haven't, I haven't got very far in the whole thing. But obviously, I want to do some
shows about it if I'm doing it. But one of them, one of the basic things is that a lot of these
sensors don't really have secured networks. I don't really, yeah, I might find, do I care if
the neighbors know what temperature it is outside, not really. But on the other hand, I don't want
them having my Wi-Fi password, you know, on a little device that you can go around and swipe away.
So I want that to be a separate Wi-Fi network. And then I'm interested in having all the
devices on that and then having Uber control about what each thing is allowed to get out too.
Mm-hmm. Yep, yep, yep. So yeah, I'm looking at several ways of doing that. Maybe I've got some
little, um, yeah, maybe I'll do a show just talking about it and asking people's ideas.
Back to Kevin's show, setting up a pie hole.
I've gotten his turn, it is. Hedic.
Do you have Kevin? Sorry, I think.
What Dave said, informative how and why set up a pie hole. This presentation was informative
about a pie hole. I have heard about it and may set one up myself one day. And I have a good
understanding now of how to do it and the reason the purpose first.
And Norris says, run pie hole without a pie. I'd put off using pie hole because I didn't want to
have an extra raspberry pie. I was happy to learn that any devian installation is supported. So I
set up a pie hole on a devian virtual machine. Mm-hmm. There you go. Yeah, yeah, yes. There's a
docker installation as well. You can run so you could easily share it to share a machine
between several things. I haven't installed mine with docker, but I'm going to have two instances
of it and two pies. So one goes down like a store, my DNS, my network doesn't collapse as a
consequence. And HPR, as we all know, has a tech podcast network and we've mentioned that we do
like to get their shows about ships bells, etc. But this one, HPR 4062 was also an excellent
addition and fits exactly in with the HPR ethos. HPR music series question mark. How will it go
for the girl and me? Fred Black pitches an idea for a series of music being shared and teaches
a tune. What did you think of that did? Absolutely wonderful. I was so pleased he did that.
They have been fascinated by the Nikol Harba, I think it's I don't know. Anyway, it's a
key sort of violinist like instrument to have seen somewhere, I can't remember, but because I like
going to music museums and things. But yeah, and it looks quite complex to play, but I
imagine it's just a case of any instrument. They're all complex at some level. But yeah, it's
a fascinating thing. And I liked the setting up of the song and so forth. I'd like to hear
the song on a sort of standalone rather than in the way he was sort of offering it up. But
it's a great idea. It's a really great idea. And I think it's got legs. I think it could run and run
this one. I think the format reminds me very much of Transessions in Ireland. When I heard this,
I was brought back to when my father, my father played fiddle and when people would come around,
they would, do you know this one, Jude or he would go, do you know this one, somebody else?
This is the way he was describing it was exactly how they taught each other the songs and they
were kind of playing it for a little while. And then I was always fascinated by how little time
it took them to pick up I think. And now you do this and then you go, so the format, even though
it's a different country, completely different players, it was the format of the transfer of the
knowledge was exactly the same. Yeah, fascinated. Loved it. I will always have a place in my heart
for this show. Thank you. And as Tray says, reminds me of violin lessons when I was young. Thanks
for sharing. I remember sitting in violin lessons and my instructor would play something like
this and try to teach me. I never did well. The Harpica looks like it would be much more difficult,
but it sounds amazing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I also learned violin as a youngster and it was a
struggle. I gave it up at about age 15 because it was so much of a struggle. There you go.
Vokey says, good initiative. Good job, my child to son. For those interested in how different
the same tune in Swedish folk music concerned, there's a video on YouTube and there's a link here
where it's played with fiddle and even as a song. Yeah, and there you wanted to know what it
sounds like. Played it through once and then did the knowledge transfer session at the end.
So maybe if this becomes a format for the rest of us, play the song first and then do the teaching
music at the second part for the musicians. But for the series, yes, more of this type of thing.
You're going to do Brian and Ohio's Quint? I am because I was going, how come it says three there?
And I can only see two comments. Thank you. Brian in the higher says, great show,
fun show, hope you do more. Excellent. Words we get to the point. Well said, well said.
So given an eye in the date of the 28th, we had chat GBT output is not compatible with CC by
SA, you say, in which it a response to hit for your 3983, which can argue that using chat GBT
output couldn't be posted to HPR. Do Brian's comment? Yes, Brian in the higher says,
Amen. Great show. Well thought out and explained. Love break the web idea. We need to do that.
Hope you'll do more alt web stuff. Keep them coming. However, D&T is 100% wrong.
A, a court has ruled in the US that is not copyrightable. However, if I learned anything from
I'm not a lawyer, that's number one that I learned from the sulfur conservancy
podcasts, freeze and freedom. If I learn anything from them, like there are several different
districts and just because it's ruled and one doesn't mean it's not ruled and the other,
and then it has to go the whole way to the Supreme Court. To me, it's very clear that they're put
in terms and conditions about the use of the stuff. So therefore, they're claiming copyright,
even if they're not. By default, things get copyright unless they aren't. And even aside from that,
even if it was with all the Jewish districts in the US and the Supreme Court ruled out,
it still makes that a US law and not an international law. And the fallback, with all copyright
issues here in HBR is, we don't post it if there's any doubt whatsoever that it is
that it is copyrightable or somebody's going to claim or somebody's going to come after for
after us first. So feel free to use it, but treat it like you would be referring to the BBC,
give it attribution, but don't verbatim use it. Yep. Yep. That sounds clear.
Well, that's why the model is free, open source and all the training data is creative commons
and everything has been, all the ducks are done in the row and there's a, you know, this is coming
from the software free and conservancy or it's coming from wherever. Then once it's 100% clear,
yes, but when there's a shadow of a doubt, the janitors are just doing this for a hobby
and we don't want to end up in court. Thank you. Yep. I don't know.
Should probably have done a show about that, but on the other hand, it is too short.
So large language models. What are the good for? Absolutely. Be the game. Ah!
Copyrights. So I do actually have to go back and remove that.
Was that fair use? 30 seconds, I was wondering like that. Yeah, or was my singing so bad that nobody
had noticed. This was by Daniel Pearson's and it was a talk about the different machine learning
models and goods and about what we need to be aware of and about the future rules, etc.
And he thoughts? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I took away from it that he doesn't feel that there's a valid
use for them at the moment. Just sort of nuisance things like generating advertising material
and spam and things. But I put that to my son who uses, you know, LLMs, the ones in GitHub and
that sort of sort of sort of works in that area. And he said, no, there are uses. I use them daily.
I use the, whatever it's called, is it co-pilot or something to help me code. I get it to suggest,
I write something sketchy and then I get to suggest a better way of doing it. And I get better
ways of doing it, which I check thoroughly because, you know, you don't necessarily believe it,
it could be hallucinating or whatever else it will do. But, but, you know, there's usefulness in
that area. And I've also heard people in the medical field saying they can, they do use it
to support diagnoses and things like that and find that it can be quite useful. You have to use it
very, very carefully and selectively. And you also need things that you're trained in the right
areas and stuff, which medicine is not necessarily the case, but that can, that can be done. So, yeah,
yeah. So some positive responses have heard. And I have, I've been very skeptical as well,
but on the other hand, for just to remind me about this show, I have several times during this
episode. I have clicked on the transcript for these shows and just to read along and remind
me, remind myself what the content of the show was. And yes, the transcripts are quite often wrong,
and they refer to me as can falcon or something, but at the end of the day, you kind of get the idea,
they're, they're, they're tools for assisting, but I don't, you know, there's also dangers there.
So, yeah. It's not really worried about the crypto rules when they, when they get hold of
anything. So, yeah, that, there is that. It has great potential for, for misused, that's certainly
one of the things, but yeah, it's, it's, it's not, it's not intelligent, it's not artificial
intelligence, really. It's, it's just a thing that is amazingly good at correlating data. And,
you know, very good text prediction. Well, so, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the best description I've
heard of. That's fine. Yeah. But that's useful in its own. So, we had, that's all the shows for
this month, but we've had some comments on previous shows. And so, back in 2023, 29th of March,
to be precise, and Norris did a show about GitLab pages for web hosting, which were as three
examples of GitLab's continuous integration continues designed to generate a website. And,
El Mussol, I should know that as a host. So, as tremendous, I love this episode. It was informative,
well explained, and I, with great show notes. Cool. Then we had three two three eight two six,
which is one of the community news shows for March 2023, or in the same commenter,
our friend El Mussol. I don't know how you say that. I think it's maybe Spanish. Anyway,
whatever. Creative Commons dubstep, he says. In commenting on 308 and Ken musing about
a best of CC hits playlist, I'm reminded of his comments during the end of CC hits show about
developing a love of dubstep. I would love a curated CC dubstep playlist. Does it exist yet, Ken?
No, and when it does, I'll love to hear about it as well.
This kid coming. He's obviously catching up on old shows, isn't he? Exactly, because the next comment
is on his, he's jumped to the following day, which was the fourth pond, which did
made a reference in episode three eight one eight, which called fourth and which he used a fourth
called ample on the synth. He has a sly reference, perhaps, to ample fourth college. Ah,
I was wondering what that was about, because when I was reading the comment, but I didn't pass too
much he does, and then I am now reading the wiki pdf link. Okay, you replied? I replied, yes.
Hi, I'm also, is this a pun too far? I'm quite, I have no idea about the origin of ample as a
language for running the music 500 synthesizers for the music micro. It's documented as fourth
like and was probably my only real experience of such languages. I did manage to code or transcribe
some music back in the day, but the music micro couldn't manage anything at any length due to
storing the ample in RAM. That wasn't, that wasn't ample. I found the following about music 500,
which I hauded with the intention of maybe doing a show about it, I'd have to resurrect my
music micro and find the music 500 to do it. Oh, and there's a link to this was an acorn product
originally, and at music 500, there were various music synthesizers that came out of that.
There's one, this one became the BBC music 500, I believe, so anyway, but yeah, I don't know the
ample and fourth have any links to a college in Yorkshire. Fascinating, fascinating, only cup of coffee
later. I can't see a link though myself, but there should be, but it's a good question though,
it's a good question. It should be true, it should be true, and in some universe or other.
Excellent, where were we? Yeah, some guy on the internet did a show back on the first of the
11th, 2023 driving in Virginia, where he was talking about driving around Virginia.
As a resident, this is from Jason Martin, he says, as a resident, all drivers should listen to this,
it would make a great different view of their own actions. I'm not a commercial operator,
but it gave me more respect for the almonds as I. Yeah, yeah. And then we have a comment from
Kevin O'Brien on Delta Rage shows about CDI, CIDR. Oh yeah, the one about finding IPs in a netblock.
That's a hard word to say, I can't get my head around it. Anyway, Kevin O'Brien says, great show,
I really enjoyed this show, it's a useful, this is a useful tool. Oh yes it is. Oh yes it is.
Yeah, yeah, it seems so. I think we had the conversation about it. I said I did
foresee myself using it very much, but I have been enjoying using us an anger since I found out
about this. Yeah, I can see how useful it could be for sure. Okay, if we covered all the comments,
dude, I think we have. We have, we have, that you think there would be more than that, but no,
it just looks like a lot when you see them on the page. Yeah, and also, yeah, it's a good way if
you want to contribute is sending them a comment and you can't attend the community news. If you
listen to the shows, add a comment because it's always, we'll read it out anyway. Well that's
a span in which it's with great delight and deleting it and we do. But it's a good way to contribute
and it makes it more of a community than just Dave and I sitting here like Plunkers. Yep.
Rice was the only thing worth mentioning on the mailing list. There was a message from
Mark Rice just replying to the question about it should we continue with HPR? Should I read this one?
He says, I would like the project to continue. Life is kept me busy even after the move to Ken Tucky,
but I do keep notes on some things I find interesting. No promises, but I hope to start picking up
the microphone more often. In the meantime, it's been good to hear you and also returning host
and I am for one enjoying the content on each show. Super. Very, very positive. Thank you very much.
Do you want to do the honey or the business? So I made note of two things which really
Ken's area changes on the calendar page. There's now an overview of the reserved shows.
You did. It's quite useful. It's nice to see. I could see him otherwise, but being a janitor,
but it's good to see. There was a question from March 722 about that which I completely forgotten
to forward to, which is if somebody's a new host and they send their first show to that list,
to the reserve queue, when do they become a host? We have such a case. Just now we have a reserved
show, two show from somebody who is not yet a host sitting there in sort of pending state to
become one. Should we be prioritizing such shows? Just things about any issues about dealing with
such cases. You've never had that before. We have had this already. The solution was
putting a new host into the reserve queue bricks every script we have. And therefore, indeed.
And that is no bearing whatsoever on what I'm about to say next, which is I believe
that a new host should be immediately put into the main queue so that they can be introduced
to the community as soon as possible. And there's nothing to do with breaking every script
this four ways to Sunday. So if please always select a slot for your show from the regular queue,
free a first show. And then after that, we can once you get an email back from me,
I do an interview on every show that comes in from a new host, I write a personal email to
not a great pros around the thing, but to each host, welcoming them to the community. You won't
expect that on your subsequent shows, then you just regular Joe like the rest of us. But
that way we set you all, you know where your profile page is and all the rest, but the way the
profile thing is broken still, I need to fix that. Oh, is it okay? Yeah, the the the profile
stuff is coming up on the generator pages, which is a bit odd. Oh, I didn't notice that.
Right. Is it is there an I? Is there an issue on that one? I don't know. I thought there was
okay. Well, I'll go through and close some issues at some point. We should we should we should we
probably needed to jointly agree to them being close rather than we just going so that's finished
click and so on. But maybe we can do I was thinking about that. Maybe you and I can schedule
a close some bug day and we record it. Yeah. I don't know if people would find that interesting
or not, but we're reviewing bugs because it literally would be me. I Dave, do you think this is a
bug? In some cases, it's silence section while we're looking at that. For some cases, there's been
a fix. I've actually done fixes to some of them, but I wasn't entirely sure whether that did
fix it as far as I was concerned, but did you agree? And I haven't necessarily said,
hey, Ken, do you think that's fixed or not? And we definitely need to do that. And then we can
hoick them out. But yeah, there'll be others where they're just dangling and have been
been not been followed up. But I haven't done any work on in this area for a month or two. So
it'd be quite good to to go and see if I can fix that one. Just keep my hand in for this type of
stuff. Also, if there's a GitT person, Roan had set up GitT and you know, continuous development
stuff. So if somebody has experience with that and wants to join that, maybe we do that once a
month as well. And it's quite cool. Help us with cleaning up the repository and then you can put
on your CV. Yes, I managed a 15-year-old project that's been running and they maintain the Git
repository and help them out. Oh, it goes good. Yeah, start. Yep, yep, getting your foot in the door.
So I am, I'm just the two pies I mentioned earlier. It's some of a collection of pies I have here,
which I'm turning into sort of home lab thing. And one of the apps that's going on the home lab
is GitT. For me, for my own local project stuff, but I thought, oh, that's an opportunity to maybe
learn a bit more about its details as it's administrative. I'd probably be able to work
out more deeply with it. No, no promises though. It could be next year before you ever hear
back from me, but yeah, right. There's one other A or B. It was just to say that you'd added
or updated the statistics that used to be a text thing, and it's now a JSON thing, and there's
put links, both of them, you can click on them to get to them to have a look at them. And this
one returns JSON with a whole bunch of statistics and a few more as well. And his static puts
updated every 15 minutes. So that's really good. And I should say that Mr. X who used it on one of
his applications on this whole machine has now converted everything to use it, and it's really,
really happy about it. Cool. Can he pause to show? Because I have the same hardware as him, and I
would like to get a working tour. I think he said he was going to a chat with him last weekend.
So yeah, I think it's it's in the queue, but that's not I'm not binding him to it, but
that's what he's thinking of. Yeah, I think good. And if you have just general background,
all the information except the user names, passwords, keys and stuff,
related to HPR is public. So if there's, if you're thinking of you want to do some integration,
or you want to do something, we're here to help. It's normally you go to a company and they go,
no, you have to sign our NDA or use an OA token. No, here it's there. We can just pull it down.
With this JSON file, we generated, it's very expensive on the database. So we run it once every
15 minutes. And then yeah, that's fine. It's then you pull it down a flat file. And
but if you have stuff that you would like to see added to it and make your life easier or some
automation, yeah, then give us a shout when we can we can add it better. Yes, do a pull request.
Yeah, I better yet explain to us how to deal with the pull request.
Yeah, yeah, I got notes. I know, I know, I know, my brain. Yeah, I know, my notes do.
I end up having to go back to the show that I did about how to do a HPR pull request,
not just for my own pull request, pull requests of work, is it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, memory is a wonderful thing.
We've, we've killed this as much as we wanted. Anybody, as well, remember this is,
this is a community project. I'm just missing the weird, but we're not HPR, Dave and I,
we're just two janitors who, who help out, you guys are HPR. If we don't know about you,
then we don't know that you're part of HPR yet, but if you're a listener, just comment,
start commenting on the shows. It's a great way to get your voice out there. If you have a voice,
record a topic, you know, this is a thing to us like as an online hackerspace where you're
showing off your latest cool thing or you got questions or you're pondering on doing something.
Like I mentioned today in the show about the HPR, about the Raspberry Pi thing, so two shows on us,
get involved. And if you just want to work in the background, doing stuff, boring, continuous
integration, continuous development stuff, that isn't life-threatening or going to break the bank
or anything. Yeah, HPR is here, if you're retired, or you get into the game, or you're, it's so
easy, easy lemon squeezy for you, feel free to help out that way. So, or if there's all the
things that you can think of, that's, oh yeah, that's what I wanted to mention. I'm just right here
on my book YouTube. I want to get the episodes on YouTube. Somebody's posting our shows, which is
absolutely fine. They need to fix the license stuff. Well, we have a YouTube channel. We have
had it for years. Never got around to posting out. So, if we're posting to YouTube, where all the
places should we be posting? Anyone's got experience on generating an image or web thing for that,
that would be great. Your thoughts on episode zero is also required. Have that three page essay.
I want to hand it in by Monday. And yes, for your midterms, I expect you to attend at least three.
HPR community news shows. Okay, anything else that we missed? No, GPT in the
chat GPT in the episode. We'll be checking. We have people who know how to spot this sort of thing.
Oh, right. You want anything else up there? No, no, no, no, on you go. Alrighty. Tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording broadcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it means. Posting for HPR has been kindly
provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our synch.net. On the Satellite status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
