Episode: 4351
Title: HPR4351: HPR Community News for March 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4351/hpr4351.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:35:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4351 from Monday the 7th of April 2025.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Community News for March 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 104 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in March 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Falman and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
To it, it is the Community News for March 2025.
A lot of information in there, if you're new, yes, HBR is Community Podcast running
for 20 years, oh get off my lawn.
And all the shows submitted to this podcast have been contributed by volunteers very much
like you, how do I mean very much like you, exactly like you.
This is the Community News where we, the janitors, have a little look around what's been
happening in the community and bring you up to date.
Stay tuned to the end for information about a policy change that we have open on the mail
list.
So if you want to be part of that discussion, listen to the end or go join the mail list
link at the bottom of every page on the HBR website.
Joining this me this evening from Europe, where exactly in Europe?
Hello, this is Rato from Switzerland.
Switzerland, yes, high up on the mountain, so no tree to tree.
And brought here with a 20% tariff straight from the USA is Scabby from Yeo Dominion, exactly,
exactly.
And this, this show will be given to you free, so 20% of free is zero.
So we're good, as always, we begin by welcoming the new host and Scotty, can you do that please
for me?
Sure.
We have one new host, but the name of Mark W Able.
Very welcome Mark, we'll be hitting your show during this review.
And if you want to join Mark, please feel free to do so, all you need to do is go to the
HBR website and any of the pages, click that magic upload button and pick a slot, record
your show.
Well, actually record your show first, pick a slot, and upload it, it couldn't be simpler,
many, many episodes explaining how to do it.
Your first episode should be as simple as, hi, my name is, say your name, and where you
come from, how you got to be listening to HBR and how you got to be contributing to HBR.
And then on this show, the following month, we will go through your episode and basically
ask for more shows, depending on stuff that we thought would be interesting based on
your feedback.
So, supper, you might summarize it, guys.
Yes, this is our first thing, first we go through last month's show, and the reason we
do this is to make sure that everybody gets some sort of feedback on their episode, because
feedback is the currency by which our hosts are paid.
And the first show, oddly enough, was the HBR community news for February 2025, or
are there any comments on that show, guys?
There was one, and it was from DNT, talking about some guy on the internet's map, some
guy on the internet, I enjoyed your words about working with Dave, thanks for taking over
the map.
Very good.
And if you're new to HBR, wondering what this janitor thing is, and mobs, etc., etc.,
then you can go to the above page and have a look there, how we're governed is where
a community appears, and there are volunteers who help out, those volunteers have no more
say than anybody else, although, yeah, the more you do for HBR, the more you're listening
to, I guess.
So, all decisions are made on the mailing list, and we have one of those decisions this
month as well.
So the following day, we had a chat with some guy on the internet, why were you chatting
to yourself?
Well, it's something you tend to do after a few years in open source, so I haven't been
diagnosed with anything new, so we just call it normal.
BSD, I see here, oh, that's, if that doesn't get a few comments, I don't know what we'll,
open BSD, yeah, I've never, never tried, I've tried a few times to install it, but, yeah,
I've never, never felt the need.
I thought that the, I've been watching more about the B-high thing that they're doing with,
I guess, containerization, but outside of that, I've never actually ran a BSD, I was just
interested in if I were to convert my NAS over to make it more of a general file server
versus just a plain on NAS, how could I run separate processes in a contained environment,
should I choose BSD, because I wanted the, I wanted these, I wanted, with ZSH provides,
and I didn't want to trust, like, say, Ubuntu with a whole, yeah, yeah, Z, ZSH, ZSH, ZSH,
I guess, is like a major selling point of the old BSD's truth be told.
Yeah, so I'm reading up on it, but I just haven't actually pulled a trigger.
Good, good topic for shows here, I keep hearing about how good it is, but, like, a beginner's
guide, here it is, here's the beginning, beginner's guide of it, and then kind of break it down,
go into the advanced level, like what, what Dave and Mr. Young did there on Alken said, you know,
or better, better, yeah, we'll be, uh, who could it, you know, with the Libra Office thing,
cover every single aspect of it, starting with the minimum bare minimum and then build you
up, because I, I think there, I think my NAS solution could do with a revamp as well,
and having snapshots, and that sort of thing might be a useful thing, so it'd be, uh,
I have a personal interest in it, so I guess a lot of people might have as well.
Yeah, over on the Linux side, I haven't seen anything that's, um, built in,
well, I haven't looked that hard to be honest with you, but I haven't seen anything that,
that'll help you with sort of scrubbing, dealing with, um, what do you call the, the, the
hashes, so you can check for BitRot, and from what I'm hearing, that whole ZSH like has all that
built in, so, you know, yeah, exactly, and the reason I haven't gone to, uh,
BST myself for a desktop is because, yeah, there's so much Linux only stuff,
but for a NAS, you know, something nice and rock solid, it doesn't need to run anything,
SSH anyway, it's, it's coming from the BSD, so ZD, ZD, um, what's the difference?
Thank you, ZD, uh, would be, uh, would be an overinner to be running there, so yeah,
that's, that's it, so you're standing out there, your BSD dude, oh my god,
oh, back off, back off, um, uh, BSD dude, the, the thing is, two, two big
iter by drives, I want to mirror them, uh, and I want, uh, I want BSD NAS, I'm not,
rock solid, with some by shares to other, or other Unix systems.
So I want to like the so-called truners, but I don't know what the name is nowadays?
Yeah, no, I want bare, bare metal, like, that I'm not going to a company, I want,
uh, they want all the pain, I want, I want, give me the pain, yes, I enjoy the pain of making tea, yes,
exactly, and I don't know, I was going to segue in, uh, speaking of pain, the following day,
we had tattoo, but that one, that's, that's not true, tattoo. Well, well, yes, yes, and no,
I mean, in his story, he, he explained that, um, that, well, as, as he, with any kind of firewall,
now and then you hit a wall and you wonder where this wall is coming from.
Well, this one's about SE Linux, so, uh, we do get onto a firewall later in the thing,
but SE Linux is also painful by times, and this, um, just to give people who haven't listened
to the show, by the way, um, people subscribe to this podcast, uh, this episode of the HPR podcast
in order to identify shows and go back and listen to them. So if you're wondering,
if you've heard all these episodes and you're wondering where we're going into so much detail,
that is the detail, that is the reason. So this was the SE Linux, the easy way by Tlato, and, uh,
some tips and tricks about how to, uh, use SE Linux and also check stuff. Uh, and this was
something that I was always very tempted to just run a SE Linux and turn it off, but what is the
point? So I've been running it for quite a while. Um, and this was, uh, C-H-C-O-N, was, uh,
and you want to me an, uh, L-N-Captal-Z as well. So good tips there from, um, Tlato. So in the voice
of, uh, some guy on the internet, we will have the comment from some guy on the internet.
Yeah, and I must have had a bit of brain fog when I put the name in there, but, um, the title there,
time to brick the box. Nice job, Tlato. Now I have to try. You have to do a follow-up show titled
How to regain access to your system after excessive enforcement with SE Linux.
Good luck to the both of us.
And, uh, on Sir from Clato, this advice comes with no warranty. Thanks, Scotty, to paraphrase the
GPL. This advice is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty,
without even the implied warranty of thickness for a particular purpose.
Yeah, yeah. Got, got a love there warranty. I mean, that, uh, that license.
Yeah, they would need. What, what about app armor? Are they, um, is it about the same app armor
or and SE Linux or? Yeah, pretty similar. I've always thought they fall into the same sort of
bucket, but again, who are we guys? If there's somebody out there screaming at the microphone,
going, you know, you're stupid. Then pick up the mic and send in a show. Yes, please give us some
advice. So the following day in our programming 101 series we had from, uh, Harry Larry,
how to maintain a row of mode system that is behind the firewall, but has no
forwarding and an unknown IP. There's one comment. Yeah, my myself. Hi, Harry, Larry. Have you ever
considered using this sink thing as a way to sync files? Sink thing.net? I have found it massively
simplifies thinking between mode systems. And the reason I put that comment in was because, um,
Harry, Larry describes a way that you have to do it because you need to go to the firewall,
open a port, et cetera, et cetera. But, uh, sink thing, sink thing, which is free,
lever and open source, um, bypasses that and allows you to, um, go to a stun server, um, find out
the IP address, open a port to that, and it's basically seamless. Uh, I've had a lot of look with it,
and, uh, uh, Kevin has used that to share files with me over the internet. So that's kind of cool.
Isn't, isn't was this, um, this stun server you meant was this kind of a relay server?
Yeah, the thing is, um, if you have your firewall blocked, you can't get in. But what you can do
is you can have the application go out to another, uh, another server and go, hey, um, I'm trying to
contact some other random person. That random person also goes out to that server. But, uh,
a better explanation on stun and how it works would also be useful. So I'm not, I'm not the
best person to give that, but if there's somebody out there who has more than passing knowledge on us,
what do you need to do, folks? But have a very, have a very, have a nice idea of how to, how to
circumvent these, uh, these barriers and, um, I was, um, I was quite interesting how, how
we solved it, I thought. Yeah, it was, it was interesting, but at the same time, he still needed to
go to the firewall and open up the, open up the port. And that was a, so set up forward,
forwarding log into your router from a browser attached to the router, like, for instance, a browser
on your secondary system. Yes, yes, it was necessary. Yeah. I'm not a huge big fan of using NC for
anything, uh, uh, real, cause it's, it's like this port is open and I'm doing absolutely zero
checking on it whatsoever. Whatever comes in, I'll just take it, not, not to key exchange or anything.
So, yeah, it can be done. What Harry Larry's describes definitely can be done, but, uh, there are,
there are, beware, beware, beware, beware. Exactly. Remember that warranty thing from, uh, from
earlier, and don't get me wrong, I'm more or less done a lot of the stuff and I'm doing a lot of
the stuff that Harry Larry describes in this, uh, but there are so much opportunity for, uh,
making a mistake and forgetting, like, we had the operator episode sometime ago where he simply
forgot that he had a configuration in there for, uh, his wife, uh, and of course he, you know,
after, well, the best intention of the world, you make a change and then you forget to
make the change. So, yeah. Yeah, it doesn't need much. And then the next show we had was from
Ahuka with titled Gimp Fixing Photos. And this was a long, promised episode from, um, from Ahuka.
And I say in my comment great tip, these are some of the best low hanging fruit use cases for anyone
who is into photography in a holiday family snap level. I count myself, uh, among these and picked
up several tips in this one. I used to, I used to have earlier, much more the problem with red
eyes. I don't know if the, if, how to, if I don't take pictures into the dark anymore, or if they,
they fixed it such a lot with the, with the technique of the mobile phones, um, to get rid of,
to get around it. I mean, there is, I think almost every phone has a little AI inside to, to,
to brush up your pictures. And, um, yeah, so I haven't seen in a while.
Another comment there from Rother playback. Can't playback, um, can't play podcasts on sonos.
Some other, some others play others don't. Do you do your own processing?
Okay, so this was a help desk, um, yeah, I was a little confused about that one.
Yeah, this was, this was more a, um, uh, check. Yeah, a help desk request for, um,
and I've asked around if anyone is using sonos, uh, so it's, it's not specifically about, um,
a hookah. So Kevin responds anyway processing. I record all my shows in dusty booths, the audio
by a few DB, export them to flak and upload them to HPR. This is the, uh, extent of my processing.
I believe HPR then transcodes into MP3 organs so forth. Yes, we do. So that was the end of Kevin's
comment. And now, um, yes, absolutely we do. Um, now I've checked the quality of these episodes,
and in fact, I've opened a bug. Let me just track that down. If somebody wants to read
the hammocks, uh, comments, well, I do that. Henry Cameron says comment number four on that
podcast. Quick access to external photo editing tools from Dickey Cam. Don't nail view.
Thanks for sharing your game tips. I was also happy to hear that you also use Dickey Cam as I do.
When I do not want to edit with Dickey Cam itself, I can right click on the Don't nail in Dickey
Cam to get to a menu where there is an option open with where I have gimp raw therapy and more
software's listed. Furthermore, I have added in the main toolbar to button open with predefined
software, which in my case is raw therapy. Remark, I'm not sure I have translated the Dickey
Cam terms correctly into English. Next comment by Kevin O'Brien. Good tip. That's a good tip,
Henry. You can do this with both the thumbnail and the preview. Cool. And the ticket I opened is,
issue number 12. I put a link as a comment, I commented with a link into the show notes for this
for that episode. Um, and can't play on sonos. So I've asked around if anyone's got any more
information. I don't have any sonos stuff. The audio waveforms looks good on the inputs. The audio
waveforms looks good on the output. Checked everything spectrally and tried other devices. So I say,
I confirm it is playing without issue on Fedora Debian Windows 11 iOS and Android. Please provide
more information as to what you mean by can't play podcast on sonos. Do you mean he can't play
the media or that you can't subscribe to the feed? What sonos application do you mean? I don't have
access to a sonos device. So you will need to describe the steps involved in reproducing the issue.
Do other HVR shows play? Are you talking about the entire HVR XML podcast feed? Also, can you
clarify? Um, in either case, please provide examples with the name of episode type. For example,
HVR1234.mp3 or new or older opus or whatever. Um, and yes, we do our own processing with a link to
where we do that. Uh, to the actual file that we use for doing that. Um, so please provide some way
of contacting me so we can work on fixing the issue and ideally create an account on the GIT
T instance where we do the bug reporting. And I've added sonos to our documentation and it
would be great if you could become the janitor to test and make sure stuff is working swimmingly
on sonos and sonos devices. So there you go. Um, you thought you thought about many things here.
Um, one one that came to my mind. Is he streaming or is he downloading and playing it off the
ward? Yep, that's another one. But either way, it's going to be the same thing because none of these
services, and I mean, none of them do any form of caching. They can't cause its HGTP requests and
they all come from the HPR websites always. That ain't how the internet works. So whether they
download it, um, and save it locally or whether they download it in, you know, it's picked up
and put through a packetizer to chop it up into chunks and then make a M3,
M3U file that you read, first play this, then play that, play the next piece. But either way,
it's going to be the same ones and zeros. So many questions here. We don't have a crystal ball,
so you gotta, gotta provide us with more information. The next show I think was based on a,
on your wish list, Ken. I have a very long wish. Yes. What in particular?
Reinventing the light switch. Yes. Lead us on the home automation with Bash, Python, and the
patchy corridor. So if I, I mean, there are so many home automation things out there, but he does
it on his own way. That's chopper. He does, for sure, goes hardcore. I'm always nervous about
putting passwords into scripts and things, but I enjoy the show. I really, I commented on this
on duck. I had to chuckle when undocumented network exploit. How many hackers does it take to change
a light bulb? Depends on how many undocumented network exploits you can use. This, this on,
you know, you just know how hackers think. It was exactly the same working others,
an air conditioner or something that we don't have control over. So what are you going to do?
You're going to do huge work routes in order to get it to work. I love this. This is, this is
absolutely excellent. So I'm moving on. Five mistakes. Every new terminal user makes and how to
avoid them. So this is a plateau, again, and Linux and terminals and stuff. I'll just give you
them current working directory. It's number one user interactive options when using my cards.
Number three is file paths. Number three is number four is executable permissions. And number five
is typing errors. And as I said in the comments, send this back to my past self-grace show. I wish
I had this when I was starting out. I'd be interested to hear any other tips people have to add
this list. And just about three day after I heard that show, I was in the terminal. I was hitting
tab and it wouldn't autocomplete. And it was like, hell, what's wrong? Then I remember the
words from plateau when I checked where I am. And of course, my computer was right. I was learning.
So we already have, we already have this show has earned its, earned its badge of honor already.
Yeah, very much. Cool stuff. So a radically transparent computer without complex
VLSI. This is a short talk given by Doug 39. The world's most advanced transparently functioning
computer. And to give you a summary of what this is, this is a completely different architecture.
Well, I'll read my comments because it's more, more or less says, everyone needs to listen to
the show. A computer that is 100% incompatible with every binary you've ever heard of,
every language compiler, every tool chain. It's incompatible with rusts into your
sides is I simply sat 54 point for the net, ELF execution files, parts of C, sums of
physics and traditional debuggers. And yet there are lots of reasons to use it. All security
searches over to themselves to listen to this one. Scotty, want to do the next? Next comment by Mark
replied to a comment or if a volunteer can wait a minute. I think as well, I need to fix the,
so what he actually is commenting about what he actually said, which was with its incompatible
with every binary executable you've heard of, every language compiler, every tool chain.
It's incompatible with rusts into your sides. I try to believe 754 is floating point for us,
ELF execution files, parts of C, sum of physics and traditional debuggers. So can you read Paul Jay's
one? All right. So Paul Jay with Doug or Doug. Hi Mark, welcome to HPR and thank you for your
excellent first podcast. I actually came across your paper a few weeks back when someone posted it
on mastodon. However, it was great to hear you explain dog yourself. I see from the information
on your website that you have a working emulator. Are you planning a hardware build at some point
or have you already done it? I very much look forward to your future podcast, Paul Jay.
To which Mark replied, hardware build roadmap. The CPU runs in simulation, but it doesn't bootstrap
itself and doesn't communicate with real peripherals even if simulated. When I on the technical side
of this project, which also has administrative little and fundraising sites, close parentheses,
I presently work on the firmware loader, which needs to transfer firmware, lookup tables from
persistent storage into at least 22 SRM ICs. There are also several initial conditions to force,
such as the instruction pointer and other CPU states. After the system can start itself in
simulation, I will finish and already started interface for peripherals. This will be via an
SPI bus. I square C will be supported also, but SPI is essentially a quorum anyhow. Once all that
is in place, then the fun starts with power, bypass capacitors, final component placement,
tracks, routing, connectors, plotting the board, mounting several hundred components,
and black smoke. White smoke, question mark. Yeah. Sounds like a large task ahead of him.
Yeah, exactly. Celeste says about the software partner liability. I just share a link which might
be useful, but maybe you already know it. Here's an open source tool for formal verification of
a CISML modeling called TT tool. To check the software design, always respect some constraints
and safety guarantees you says, even before writing the code and the link is provided. It's
ttool.telecom-paras.fr helps you detect deadlux and make sure the error streets are impossible to
reach or at least they're all less handled in the safest possible way.
Said that. Welcome to HBR. What was also very interesting to me, I mean, you hear it now and
again, and maybe I forget about it then, that he said that processors tried to guess the outcome
of a software before it is finally processed. This is always magic to me. As well beyond my pay
grade. Yeah, exactly. So the next day, we had episode three of the New Year show, which is a bit
weird this year, having them so early in the year before the solstice. And Dave Morris says about
they actually, can you read this one? Retail. Yeah, coming, just screwing down. It's incredible,
wow. Okay, Dave Morris. Nikhil Harpa. I hope I say that correctly. I'm not a musician, but I've
always been fascinated by unusual musical instruments, including the Nikhil Harpa. Oh, this is an
instrument. All right. YouTube just offered me a video about this instrument. So I thought I
would share it in case anyone else might like to see it. I guess I have to visit that. Thank you,
Dave. There we have Kevin O'Brien with Cool. I love the video. Thanks for sharing, Dave. Yeah,
it's a nice to see the instrument in use. So I'm not just hearing it. Not only hearing it.
One of the things these shows have got me interested in doing, and I want to eventually once I get
the idea compiled and ready for other years, I'm thinking about a glossary, but something like that,
I'm not sure how it would work here. So like the types. Yeah, because I'm thinking as people
join the community, they want to get more involved, and we talk about all this cool tech and things.
It'd be nice to have a glossary somewhere where you could just look at things that we commonly
go over, and these shows, especially the New Year's Eve shows. I mean, we dredge up so much
interesting things. I mean, that provides a lot of it right there, but still it would be nice to
have it all in one place. Over at late night, Linux, they asked once the community to do something,
and one guy did some website that called discoveries, and where they collect, I guess, somehow
automatically all the things together from the show notes or such. Or do you mean something else?
Well, anything that could be automated, and doesn't cost too much in time and effort,
works perfectly fine for me, is just, I like the idea of how the New Year's Eve shows,
provides just this huge catalog of interesting things you can go back and review,
and I have a few of the links from the previous New Year's Eve shows. I'm fooling around with
the idea now, but I just haven't had much time to polish it up, but I wanted to talk about it more.
See if anyone else was interesting, and especially if you're in the community and have any kind of
experience with this, definitely reach out. Yeah, and I've been thinking about
the whole discussion about AI models and the like, which will come to later on.
So if you want to do a HBR or AI using HBR's stuff, and
so long as you release your changes under the under-freedly open source license and respect
the creative commons licenses, there's a lot of already rendered text that you can
slurp in and get just all the answers for. So I think that would be a useful use of AI on
finding HBR episodes about something. Yeah, also an interesting idea.
Anyway, let's move on to operator's episode about Anton's HBR 4313, which was a text-to-speech
version of this. So HBR 4313, why I met an episode podcast about a war story. He took
the first chapter, converted it, translated it from Portuguese to English, and they did a very
convincing text-to-speech rendering of that for your listening pleasure. Although the topic isn't
is very heavy, as we said, and there were no commons from that. And speaking of Antoni,
he had the everything I know in 20 minutes show. And these are the type of shows I really,
really dislike. And you know why? Because it contains five, six, six different things that could
have been individual shows themselves. So, carrying away more safely, microphone types, recording
tips, permissions for apps, mobile phone batteries. Great job was I joke, of course. What did you
guys think? I liked it because it's kind of a open box and see what is inside. And I liked it
that it went through many different topics and here it's quite some knowledge. And it was
interesting to me. Yeah, I'm the only one who gets annoyed with this.
Yeah, I mean, if it gets them to get a show out the door, and I mean, we can always ask questions
about individual items. I want in depth episodes. You know, the only one where I'll accept this,
these compilation ones is if you do sub shows on each of them in turn, no, I'm messing, I'm messing,
I'm messing, I'm messing. Sorry, did I cut you off there? No, no, no, I was just, I was just
thinking your approach and I was thinking how many minutes it ran in the end or how many,
I think in the intro, he said something like 10 minutes and then it was 20, but I'm not sure if
it was this show or if I mix it up with another one. Yeah. So something like that, right? And
yeah, and I really appreciated his knowledge about microphones and because I use a dynamic one
right now, I only have one actually. And yeah, and then my thinking about his suggestion for the
templates and then I came with another idea, but then he explained his approach from his point
of view. And it is so interesting because I looked at it from my point, right? And he had a
total different approach because of books. How do you say that? Lecture it or something like that?
And yeah, so what was him to me? Lofted. No, excellent, because there are some great tips
in there as well. So let's move on to the next show. And that is OpenWebUI operator. I go over
how I have my local LLMs set up because I'm a horath to this. So using HVR as a backup,
he's put up his basically cheat sheet for getting LLMs up and running large language models.
He seems to be doing a lot of work in this. Were you guys able to follow or were you as lost as
I was completely lost? And I don't think it's I play myself here. I think we need a really
handholding introduction into large language models to be honest. Well, on some of the podcasts
and they introduce and larger and smaller models and they talk about it and how you
how can make use of it and home assistant, also just lately introduced something like this and then
but then I often hear about the large or the big graphics card. You need like six, at least four
gigabytes. I would say better you have six to eight 12 gigabytes on a graphic card that you can
load the whole thing into this RAM or something like that. And I think my well, I'm not a gamer,
so I have a very simple card. So I don't know how much I would really get out of it.
But then on the other hand, there is a new Linux distribution called the Tana. It's like
VIT, ANA. And there during the install you can choose to have a small local LLM. And this would
support you when you are in the terminal and you have some questions. And it would not go out,
but just locally. And it is a small one and it should be happy with not so much
resources. But I don't know how much it develops by now. I'd also like to point out the thing
that you mentioned about the graphics cards. You're definitely going to want to get Nvidia because
that's where everyone's developing for not because it's better. It's just everyone's there already
and it seems like it must be too much work to use anything else because it's hard to find
actual working projects on other GPUs. Good point. So the next day we had three, two,
A's E4th and welcoming back Brian and Ohio with a recommendation for a book, of course,
Brian is a big fan of fourth. A recommendation of a book by Dr. Chen Hanson and the book was
published back in 2018 and you can get the PDF is available. So a nice little run down there
on if that's something of interest to you. The next show was to me a controversial topic.
The review of the YR01 smartlock. Ron reviews his recently installed Yamiri YR01 fingerprint smart
knob. I say it's controversial to me because it is to open my door. And my worst nightmare
kind of is it is wintertime. I just want to grab something outside and the door falls into its
lock and die state air. And yeah. Yeah, I'm assuming you've got to have that analog backup or
some additional way. Remember there was a story while back Facebook. I think they had some sort of
glitch or something in their system and all their doors are digital on their facility. So a lot of
people got locked out because they were using digital locks only and they had to go through his whole
run around to try and get people back into the building. Yeah. It'll happen, but equally you might
forget your keys and all sorts of personally not a huge big fan of smart locks. But then
somebody did a breakdown on one of the homocysting guys did a breakdown and you know
they pros and cons are more as the same as using a normal lock. So what are you going to do?
It sounds very nice that the whole idea I mean especially as somebody who is interested in tech
it's really well yeah as you say I explained there is a couple of workarounds I mean when the
power goes out and such things and you have the fingerprint the code and lost but not least the key
if you want to. So yeah I mean you're not lost in front of it. But then again the funny thing I
don't know if you ever heard that one. This is if you have some kind of assistant in the house that
listens to your voice and there is an open window you can basically scream into the room open the door
so you could break into a house just like that without even destroying anything. Yeah but there's
yeah there's I don't think that yeah it all depends it all depends. I think it's things have
moved on quite a lot from here did a good job explaining what it was and they pros and cons
other backups and all sorts so it's something that you can choose to do if you wish. So
I put in the comments in there unfortunately mine turned into a project oh yes as my mother
was fond of saying it's a five minute job then four hours later. Next comment by Trey only one
trip to the hardware store nicely done any home improvement project which only requires one trip
to the hardware store is either seemingly successful or not yet complete thanks for sharing.
Can you hear me guys? Yes we can hear you. Yes. Okay the next one is playing Civilization
apart for part seven and this one is about the different victory types that you can guess
the culture one of them Ahuka describes is the culture of victory going on how to achieve this
so you've you've got Civilization and you want to replace what this time trying to beat us
based on the whole focusing and culture type rather than I don't know some of the other
other victory types that he's discussed before. Did you follow this? What did you think?
No this one I'm saving this one because I like to let a few of his shows work like in in in a
group we call it binge listening if you will so I hadn't listened to this one not yet anyways.
Okay no worries I really enjoyed it so I don't play games as most people know but at the same time
I it's good to have insights into this. Yeah I know there's I know the techniques and the
strategies that he's referring to being a gamer I understand it and what he's basically telling
all of you guys out there is that whole replayability thing you don't have to do it any one particular
way you can enjoy it in many different ways. Oh I don't believe you've got Scotty you're you're
also playing the games you even had as a podcast just come to my mind. Yeah exactly that's why
we have a one here we have a one here to refill games and then we come to a game episode Scotty what do
you know I'm going to duck 50% of your pay anyway yes he loved the following day yeah thanks go
go for it the next show was transferring large data sets how to transfer large data sets using
tar and blue ray disks while preserving metadata this show was hosted by Harry Larry I was impressed
that somebody still has a blue ray burner I mean I never had one even just have a blue ray player
inside my PlayStation but yeah it was interesting that he uses this kind of technique and I never
heard anybody else talk about it. Oh yeah I have a blue ray burner so this show uses a couple of
things that I enjoy tar I love me some tar and blue I have a blue ray disk but I gave up on the
idea of trying to backup movies myself but I still enjoy the show and have you have you ever
used the burner to do backups on the blue ray as well or no I'm not backups on blue ray itself I
used it to rip a bunch of stuff but actually I never actually bought blanks and tried to backup to
there when I was doing research they were saying that you know disk is supposed to last a lot
longer etc etc but truth be told I don't know where I'm gonna store it or anything and if the time
the human gets a hold of it it's all ruined anyway so I'm having enough trouble with what I have now
and this is not going to help me at the moment. Yeah I was one of the new world orders tattoos
episode was on about the DVDs and optical media and blue ray as well how it hasn't been living
up to its expectation with regard to long life and long journey but it's interesting to see I'd
like to know what Harry Larry's experience of this is as a data or a global medium maybe he
can do an episode on that going into you know the benefit of using the red disks for that.
In the corporate next to me I would have disks that I burned in 2005 or maybe before and I always
have chosen a slower burning rate like eight times or six times in order for the laser to
to burn it properly so to say well I was surprised even like 10 years later or such they still
worked fine but I have to be honest I haven't checked them in in the last 10 years so yeah
would be interesting to know how he how he gets along or how he makes sure that is that he's
backups stay alive and one of the things I was I was looking for I'm noticing he's not using any
compression like with gzip or anything like that with his tar so I'm wondering like you know if
you're going to be storing this for long periods of time that and if you're taking any what do you
call it I mentioned it earlier from I hadn't even a tip of my tongue the sums the check sums
if he's taking any check sounds because if you're leaving this data cold storage for a long time
you're going to want to check for bit rotting things right so that's you know I'm wondering how is
the how's he checking that yeah good point as well that's the nice thing on set FS
so I'll move on to start to show from the 25th how I use giz to blog on my web page and gophers
space using giz x very good show happy thinking there's a lot of opportunity there do you use
giz x at all Scotty is no so it sounds to me he's using a technique like this bridge thingy like
when people used to put the thing that they put on on twitter they wanted to have on on mastodon
as well so that it would kind of do it on both sides on on the gophers and on his web so he checks
in a md file and to get and then that then generates a page and then he has quon jobs that looks
for a particular day and then makes a full stack of fits on that particular day it's not it's not
a bad idea and it's also something that we might look at here in hgr because we do we're running
a static site based on git commits and triggers coming from that once we commit we can have a
GitHub that will publish for example but right at the moment we're just running us every three hours
and regenerating the website that way so i've i've marked it it's something that we can come back to
i have i have also started to google again the gophers and i remember he did already in the past
wants to show about it and i want to go back to it because i know i visited back in the days and
i want to revisit it he made me curious again about it and there is one comment by oxo
cool hi kla too cool to hear you back here i'm really missing my weekly knu world's order
regards oxo and the knu world's largest loss is hgr's gain indeed yeah
so uh yes the following day their readout engine founder and interview with bias list and uh this
was this was nice um what readout is it's game engine and uh basically about fork and what they're
doing and how they're getting all butters and uh you know general idea of sparking or sparking
forking projects and uh yeah uh another uh great great interview yeah i'm sorry good
no no please go i'm always nervous about these kind of forks though uh it's just hopefully
they'll have the manpower to keep it going for a long you know long enough but i i'm nervous about it
yeah but but it has it has a very very good side because i think they they definitely point out
in their in their community that something went south and that we have to look at it and
and and furthermore um to my honest i listen closely exactly because of what you mentioned scuddy
and he's mentioning that they try to stay as close to their stable version of gotholt
if i understood correctly um as possible so they are am i wrong but what was your what was your
feeling about it yeah they're they seem to have quite a lot of people joining so it's a
if anything else it's a uh seems equal in size to the project they're forking from so time will
tell as with all of these and you know maybe come to a point where things can be uh merged back
together and uh fork is not always necessarily a bad thing for either projects so uh yes
and then we had the new year show episode four uh no comments on that but as you say
quite a lot of uh quite a lot of links and the you uh and uh each pin honky that's the guy
i did a great job in producing the show notes and producing the shows on time brilliant
and anytime you see think film music you know there's a moss bliss isn't too far too far behind
that so great stuff and i really enjoyed i was on quite a lot of these and uh kind of what's
going up and down in coffee and whatever but it was nice to relisten to the episodes and uh
experience the chat again so uh on the 28th we had um operator talking about android 2025
and about how to kindly get um access to if you've got a phone and you don't have root
an android phone and you don't have root on us uh tips and tricks for getting um getting
the stuff that you want on your phone uh back on your phone so load of uh links in there um
know the launch prime firefox nicely developers extensions sponsor block DNS 66 hacker keyboard
etc etc etc some of them i've heard about some of them were new to me but a very good episode i
thought have you ever exchanged a launcher uh no um yes but
then on a phone i was throwing away well you know i test phone so i haven't lived with it if
you know what i mean yeah and you scuddy no i'm over on boring old uh iphone so there isn't much
we can do with these things and truth be told i don't trust them enough to do anything with them
anyways so i only think i do with it is text and make calls okay yeah and the iphone will not let
you do it anyway yeah that the thing that um that i heard again um well it always makes me curious
about the launcher but i've never gone dead root exactly because kind of afraid if something goes
self with my um with my current or with my daily with my daily phone but then the other one which
is um i always someday i gonna try this is this sponsor block um in the youtube videos when you
sometimes watch a youtube video and and then they start to talk about something and they were like
hey uh what is going on and oh it is an advertisement yeah so this is really something that
that box me and makes me curious about such an such an app hey such an app i mean fair enough
if they need to do an ad but i think in the uk and parts europe there's a requirement to put a
hashtag ad symbol on the screen when when you do start the ad so that people know what's going on
and they're also as cct 35 markers that you can put in into the stream to signal that the ad is in
place which is very useful but uh huh okay yeah but i don't think a lot of people in the us do that
are required to do that so product placement just right yeah yeah was also my impression so could
be european thing only so the last one of the the series was a brief review of the pine tab
two from swift 110 and basically a free libra open source tablet for use and a review of the same
i was tempted i must say i was tempted but i've kind of been been very unlucky with pying
pying stuff myself so what kind of experience do you already have?
yeah i've discussed it before you know but yeah it's it's mostly just i got a lucky that's it
all right and you Scotty? yeah i was hoping he would talk about it i've heard his
experiences before but he's not the only one with those experiences i'll say and truth be told
it has been such a long time since i've heard anything about pying this was nice to actually hear
from a user of the product um who else bought a pying tab was it moss or or maybe someone else from
the community has a pying tab too and was i think they were going to do a review on it so it's nice
to hear somebody who actually has one and is using it for something yeah yeah i would really like to
to have such a pying tab but honestly i prefer the laptop you know because i need to keyboard
anyway at some at some point and yeah so it is a bit i think he also brought this this
information over when he said this is the battery empty or is it full or no it works
yeah you know i use it for for decent data but it is not a stately driver was my impression of it
yeah i was using the tablet for a while just a general tablet that i had put
reflash the firmware on us just to get another version of a non-google google list
um but i'm yeah i'm not really a tablessy person and then if i'm doing stuff for the laptop
i'm doing over the laptop yeah you know but it was it was good a good use case to hear
yep i also liked it okay so that was that there was one comment from Kevin nobrying
z z a reason i was a fan of the reason as well unfortunately it won of the many businesses
that disappeared due to the covid pandemic so that was that um so there were six comments on
the past shows which are on the main episodes show notes of four three five one and they were
on an episode that was back from 2023 on solicited thoughts on running an open source project by D&T
um Anton had those one comment uh from Anton yeah do you want to read that one out you have to
follow the link yeah it's my comment about this show for some years my default thought was
free software is on github it is the means by which the source code is made available
people can't contribute or cannot the maintainer can decide fork post bugs and file can be uh
directly downloaded with some other options of course but main scheme can be translated
to what the github site is i'm not a developer nor anything or anything i just like the absurd
uh i just like to absorb some knowledge some some this some of this is a layman perspective
listening to your show gave me a breath of fresh air no this is not a must for free software
and one example as you gave the software may have its own web page freely made to be known
but entirely maintained by changes uh exchanges of talk and code by email in the mailing list
oh i know what he's saying he's saying like that no no no forge exactly all uh all you brought
here gave me a perspective of much more simplicity uh rethinking what i envisioned as free software
today because many other uh many times many projects there are issues opened and no answer even
no answer ever even with development ongoing like saying we are in github with all the resources
it brings my inertia um because everybody does but we give attention to users or developers
right so i think i got lost in a quote somewhere he gave it he started a quote there but i uh
i got lost in it a talk you gave to rethink what developers want with their software and do a
cordon or according to the objects thanks for the show sorry if i expressed bad not wanting to
diminish nor intending to summarize what you said now i think we get the the general gist
so there was a episode from uh 20 24 0 6 is in a shared cell shell history by a twin and this was
by m n w and the comment for us from windy and it was appreciate the overview thanks for going
over your experiences with a twin i've heard of this before and checking it out is on my to do list
i'm also interested in self hosting the server side component do you experience do you experience
will be invaluable when i managed to try it out thanks for sharing your experience
shall i do the next one um no i like i can do it um the next one is from operator
all i was about to show kind of have i been poned from from operator and it was from
there's a comment back to john the nice guy who had uh exposed uh yeah first he's sympathized
john john the nice guy sent uh sent in a comment uh in in December 2024 and operator replied
not a robot hi john the nice guy thanks i just used the open VPN VPN on my phone router that updates itself
etc also doubles as a great universal ad blocker my locked down work phone is more secure tunneling
through my home connection with open VPN the play store then it is in the office
your home network is more secure than the office yeah okay oh yeah yeah you mentioned that again
lately in the i think when he was talking about the mood his phone apps his current mobile phone
where we had before so platoon had a episode on crooks linux back on february of this year
and the nct has a comment called messing up which he says this sounds a good deal like archlinux install
when you mess up you don't really have to start over and i think that's what makes it so educational
and kind of like a game it's better to mess up so that you can find out more so yeah that's good
so shall you do i did a episode good smart and wise gg2 rescue in the Netherlands and some guy in
the internet commented and here to play some guy on the internet is some guy in the internet great show
getting sued after saving a life can really ruin your day is nice to hear that criminal charges
will not be filed against a good samaritan but the civil court the the civil courts are a
dice roll great examples offered during the conversation property damage during rescue i think that
was the example yeah i don't think even here the civil courts would be a dice roll they they
has never been a case where the civil courts have and i'm not a lawyer blah blah blah blah but
you know you can the whole point of the constitution is that you're supposed to outbound and
that they don't tend to go against that it was just some guy decided to do a litigation thing
enough and the yeah the courts here are not really set up in favor of that sort of thing and
they don't look like look kindly and that sort of thing and also there's so many other case
examples were that wouldn't have been the case that i doubt you would have any any risk involved
the risk in not doing something will be a lot more than the risk in doing something to be honest
i think that kind of thing is better for a society having that that outlook and that that
known protection i would like to have it here but you know yeah yeah no it's different places
different places and and we we come from you know a different mindset you know you
america great outdoors you got your rifle and i'm going off into the woods here were nine meters
below sea level and if we don't help each other out then none of us has got a home you know
it tends to tends to influence things just just yesterday i cited some of this of this interview
from you um which was very interesting that you can do a hard how do you call that when it
give a heart massage you know to keep the heart to keep the heart going and then the professional
is coming on this finding out this person doesn't want to have palliative um yeah support says stop it
and i mean it's just the situation you know to think about that yeah you're sweating you give
everything you have and boom yeah and and you know your your beliefs are yeah you know i'm coming
to this as a rescuer and and my belief is yeah i i i have to keep the personal life that's my
religious belief for whatever and then the person who's who's dying is going no i like my religious
belief is country to that so they wake up and i recovered and they're living a life of pain
as a result of something that you've done so it's you know it's stuff to think about but um
yeah decide what you're going to do first and then the thing is if you don't do CPR or not
if you find that thing then good and well but if you don't find this then um and you don't do it
then you're in trouble in the Netherlands at least if you've got training yeah so uh Antoine
also commented in brazil very briefly sharing about the topic in brazil reference articles
if someone's just size if i somehow decide to do a full show about it well i think that
guys we should stop there that he should do a full show about for that read on okay no one
has a blight to uh soccer another if there's a possible damage or damaging car crash by the
lower responsible for this person parent or relation or children that's the article the exception
is failing to provide existence when possible without personal risk to abandon or lost child
and in brazil or blah blah blah blah blah it's the law but dead letter not applied effectively
and i'm doing blah blah blah because it's very legal he's copying here from the legal code so
um i will suggest Antoine does an episode about this and then it becomes a series and um yeah
basically describes the article but also tells us what it is if you want to read it they
the comments a link is in the show notes for this episode and let's do the last two comments
two software are used on the keyboard which was from and archer 72 says um can you read that one
perhaps yeah oh sorry okay it's the f uto keyboard hello one one thanks for your show i'm
changing my keyboard to the footo keyboard at least for now ps it is good to hear you it is good
to hear you on the last few shows what is your recording setup like question mark archer 72
archer mark yeah and uh Antoine says hi archer 72 my setup i still playing with the possibility here
in h we are sharing something about audio programs look if you're going to start your comments like
that right i'm never going to read the mouse because i love a show here's another show that we
could be doing all right i already have used almost all the possibilities i've usb condensed microphone
dynamic direct on the smartphone holding my hand and a cheap leander um microphone i'm almost
sure that for this one i used a laptop computer galaxy um book four ultra a beringer um um c 22 usb
audio technica pro 63 dynamic l x l r mic mic is specific for instruments and it was on audio
technica at a good point uh price point at the time so getting it and the interface uh years ago
was satisfactory when i have time i play with compression normalization and i'm absolutely in
the mood and the demands time and effort equalization i think i've done it here and i did not cut out
errors nor change the pace of which i talked about cutting out silences so if you happen to want
more about no more about those options feel free to ask nice to know that you're giving uh
to a chance i hope it works out well let me share also that i didn't say and i haven't seen anywhere else
that there's a shortcut paste like it's special icon with a long press of the v and other things
like this uh selecting all options while pressing the uh capital a and thanks
yeah i'm sure if you would have talked about it um it would have got even a bit longer and uh sounds
like show it definitely sounds like a show or a series of shows so uh that brings us to the end of
the comments and on to the um uh community news stuff uh the first one was let's do the last
day the the the the the the hankon belgium they've asked all on our pass already that first
hankon belgium friends and fellow ham enthusiasts asked if we'd be interested in sharing
information about hankon belgium 2035 you might remember uh that um he's the ham guy this is
assist sent to me by kristoff who if you're following me and uh foster him and amateur radio you'll
love kama kralson before so there's going to be uh hankon belgium 2025 10 presentations uh
amateur radio non-technical um stuff so there's a link in the show notes hamacom.be
be there or be a rectangle that's on saturday the 26th of april 2025 saturday the 26th of april
and then we had every single uh yarn holster up so listening to tattoos new world order this is from
me all about the uh you you know host project uh yes i am behind uh is anyone interested in doing a
series new world order every single package in linux equivalent but using the based on the
abs listed on the you know host website basically like uh what platy did when he went through every
single package listed in linux there's 500 and 31 supported uh self hosting web applications
like matrix home assistant next cloud etc and loads of them i'd never heard of the idea would be
give a short review possibly try out each of them on the site itself maybe or locally or whatever
and the first one is uh just taking this bow bow come um which is a lightweight caldaves um
caldaven card dav server and i give a link to where it is and then the details of the apps so
each of their apps have got a like uh an explanation and i give you the explanation there so it's a
blah blah blah it makes use of this it's got an address book blah blah blah it uses back end
escuel storage etc and then what you would do as a host is maybe try it out for a few weeks or
try to install it locally or connect to it is um don't spoil your domain list no no no wow
we have that in the next one so what i want people to do is um have a think about whether you'd like
to use that and then let's come to the policy change and then i will stop talking except for the
ones where i reply myself so policy discussion removal of non-free cc by nc license
hi all i would like to officially request that the non-free variants from the creative commons licenses
be removed from the hpr upload form to remain allowed cc zero this is a public domain license
cc by this license is similar to an m it or a bsd uh source software license cc by s a
this license is similar to a copyright uh copyright left free and open source software license
and is our default license our request to remove the following licenses
as in there will no longer be available for selection in all shows from now on or from whenever
this passes which will be next month if this discussion continues so creative commons by
no derivative works as no edits or changes to the original work are allowed cc by does non-commercial
as no non-commercial uses allowed and then the variance of those cc by nc s a and nc and d as
no commercial uses allowed or no commercial uses allowed or no edits or no changing due to
regional work is allowed existing shows remain as is but a concertive effort will be made to have
the host licenses for their work approved uh for their work switch to an approved license so more
information are in there creative commons share your work um so background and reasoning for this
is as follows hbr is dedicated to sharing knowledge and while a non-commercial no derivatives license
is in theory in theory do not hinder this in practice they do no derivatives where the show
is uh submitted using no derivatives on hobby electronics for example you would not be able to
use that tutorial on a ham radio so there are only six shows that are uh non-derivative
and they are all shows published in published in their entirety to showcase other works so
essentially the no derivatives tends not to be an issue what is an issue is non-commercial
licenses when hbr started all shows were released under a crit commons by non-commercial share
like the license following the discussion on 2011 uh June of 2011 we switched by default to cc by
the creative commons says just from their side uh non-commercial license prohibits use that are
primarily intended for or directed towards commercial advantage or monetary compensation cc cannot
advise you on what that is and it is not what is and what is not commercial use if you are
unsure you should either contact the rights hold refer to our application or search for work
commercial use end quote where the holes were the holes to sell a usb stick containing all our
episodes as an event and to sell at a cost or for a small markoff to cover expenses any non-commercial
show could not be included as we always ask permission on a case by case basis so that's not
practical given that we would need to contact 128 holes and it would require the person who
brought the usg stick from us to get permissions from all the non-commercial holes if they wish
to sell it to somebody else so it's essentially impractical selecting a non-commercial license does
not prevent commercial use as can be seen from an example show hbr4322 which was released under cc
by ncsa so non-commercial it's on Spotify amazon iHart radio apple podcasts listen notes player
fm pod catchers Spotify and top podcast main bottom few those platforms will argue that they're
only sharing the feed which is correct as the media itself is coming from our servers but you
could counter argue that they are making money off our work but alas we have no legal team so to some
so in summary those who wish to profit from our shows do so securely in the knowledge that we
can't do anything about us while we place in possible burdens on those who wish to do the right thing
so this was the end of your message and that was the end of my message you may start reading
the comments while i get it here thank okay so there's the comments at i don't have the comments
let me um so there's a thread i'll put the link into the channel one second at the bottom of the
initial email you find the link to the mailing list there you go it's it's actually on the show
notes of the episode on the show notes your episodes says mailing list discussions and the
track can be found here so carl d hamhaiman says come on yeah tldr i agree with the rational and
the approach nailed it and there's more conversation there was something in between sorry i missed
tldr i agree with the rational and the approach this seems like it would help with the all
of hpr on a usb stick scenario sounds like a lot of work but it makes sense to do it once rather than
repeatedly and then to your summaries as it nails it all right we have the next comment from
Jim Lennard on three six twenty twenty five oh wait no i'm reading wrong six one one second
i concur with your message with your reasoning and would support this change okay and can you
also do tattoos one it's a bit longer okay i believe that the no commercial and i don't know
what the indie stands for but no derivative no derivative works yeah in no derivative options
should remain on hpr no commercial a contributor should have the ability to opt out of having
their content intended for specific purposes reproduced or to make someone else's profit no derivative
a contributor may not want their audio chopped up and release under a release without appropriate
context this doesn't have to be nefarious but some reediting a someone reediting a show could
just be incompetent and mangle that would is otherwise a clear message a contributor ought to be
able to opt out it doesn't matter that hpr has no legal team a contributor might have a legal counsel
and even if they don't they still might value a plausible deniability and he gives a scenario where
prosecutor speaking as a prosecutor would you're selling podcasts about making fake IDs then from
a defendant's perspective no my license prohibits my content from being sold again prosecutor
i heard you say i hate open source defended that was in edit of my original audio i actually said
i hate open source projects that choose to close license after becoming popular the spirit of
the free culture is easy to abuse and even if we take something in something too court we should
equip ourselves with legal tools to assert our original intent you may or may not ignore my
hypocris uh hold on my hypocrisy from claiming what one's a one say there we go from claiming that
this is a important but never actually using the restricted license for my own contributions
i just believe that our systems are designed our system design is better with the reasonably
complete set of licensing options clear to to which i reply i don't agree with your
eagle argument below as a defendant could point out to the original release could just point to
the original release this is commonly done with prior art uh undermining patent requests
a more likely to occur legal scenario is a contribution not liking the fact that their non-commercial
show is released on the commercial platform like iTunes Spotify etc they will not have the
money to take on the big platforms but it would be very effective to take hbr to court for allowing
their works to be shared contrary to the license we agree to during the upload process if we're
lucky we could get away with by removing the non-commercial feeds episodes from the feed
going to commercial platforms but what defines commercial platform it would be safer to not include
any cc shows non-commercial shows at all that would defeat the whole purpose of our goal
of sharing knowledge if we can't distribute the shows we already have a lot of code
we already have a lot of code about filtering licenses which i would love to get rid of
every option we have we also have to maintain and it comes with the maintenance cost i'm talking
about there on the on the website and on the rss feeds etc etc we have gone to a lot of trouble
to make all our source code open and i think it's reasonable for a project to say what licenses
are allowed and which are not and that's the end of my comment but i think you should understand
that i mean if we're not allowing closed licenses for a source code we should also be able to not
allow closed licenses for our podcast content yeah open all the way around
to to your own to to your message clatoon replies understood if it is a potential legal threat
to hpr to offer nc so non-commercial or non derivative as an option then i would rather remove
them as options then lose hpr as you've pointed out it's all highly theoretical anyway
and c and and e don't seem to be popular options in practice so let's lose them clatoon
and yeah go on Todd Norse i'm okay with removing the problematic licenses as options short and sweet
can you do rones um rones as i after reading the current discussion and the previous
discussion about switching to the current default license i agree with the proposal
to drop the nd and nc variants of licenses hpr allows for submitted show
cheers rone sorry i to scroll a little bit no bother um and can you do the next one please
Scotty from Kevin O'Brien i have only used cc 0 and cc b y s a for all of my content in the
various places i have posted so it is fine with me Kevin O'Brien uh always has signature down
there below that yeah yeah that's the signature yeah and i replied also as well
very up report to um to this conversation was about um a ironically enough copyrighted article
by Molly White about uh and it was entitled ways not like that free open access in the age of
generative AI and i provided a link to it and i'll just briefly summarize this here um basically
um you have a project like Wikipedia and they take your creative commons article and then they
convert it into a video and they start making money on it um and she argues well you know the
whole point is you're sharing knowledge and she goes into legally we we have beliefs that
things shouldn't occur but what actually happens in lawsuits are quite different so it's worth uh
it's definitely worth a read while we feel enraged that people are air quotes stealing our content
yeah they do there's nothing we can do about it really and should we be all that worried
when it's when it's open source anyway yes it would be nice if they would adhere to the license
but if they're not respecting copyright on the first place asking them to expect to respect
copyright specifically with exemptions yeah then it's another step too far so that was it on
that discussion so we had a community news announcement and that was pretty much that
unless you chaps have anything else that you'd like to talk about i was curious um you mentioned
once about the high load or the high traffic on the server if you if you found out um what
yeah we've had um we have been hammered a lot by um bots AI bots clawed um clawed
bots especially um and uh the site is hosted on AWS and AWS charge transit fees and our hosting
is paid for by Josh and uh we we've tried to minimize that as much as possible um and the issue is
that a lot of these bots are not uh respecting robots.dex files and they are written super inefficiently
where the same bot will be indexing the same file from three different IP addresses at the same time
so and then they come back during the day but uh failed to ban is running on our servers and
takes care of that um the fact of the matter is we we have so many shows in our rss feeds that um even
downloading the full episode rss costs uh about six hundred gig of data transfer in the month
just that file so if you can please switch if you're on the full feed please switch to the
10 day feed it's it's enough uh if if you want to download the episodes uh if you're new to it
you're absolutely go knock yourself out download that feed and then um the media self comes from
our content distribution network which doesn't uh which we're not build on um it's from the internet
archive and uh i have a few servers and rawness servers all so we're not paying for bandwidth on those
but once you've downloaded the episodes uh then switch to the regular 10 day feed if you can
that will be great so they would go to hecka public radio then they're hit get shows
and then you have a two week audio feed yep where you can find this link yep um so that's
and so in any event we need to move the hpr server again from AWS to another host and that host
doesn't pay for um bandwidth costs and also if you want to help out and you have like a fiber connection
with more than a gigabyte of bandwidth on limited and you get a fixed IP address and you're
willing to host your Raspberry Pi and the four gigabyte four terabyte hard disk then uh get in touch
and we will make use of that as a mirror point on the intweb thank you for the information
yeah no bother uh let's see did we have anything going on on they i'd love to get a
report from dt actually a monthly report and what's been going on pull requests
for marketing the logs yeah there yeah it's something on the to-do list so um
noris has been working on cleaning up some of the mysql stuff uh davis been working on getting
the show notes script uh tidied up and pushed out wasn't able to get running but uh that is
for that. I've been working on some updates to the episode processing script. And I would
ask people to please make use of the what you see is what you get editor. If it doesn't look
like rendered HTML when you post your show in, then it's not rendered HTML. And then I need
to fix it. So I'm currently spending maybe an average 10 minutes per episode that comes in,
which if you work it out, it's like 43 hours in the year. So a full work week is being spent on
that. And that's fine. As people get used to it, but I hope that will diminish over time. So
try and keep it simple links. A short summary, if you don't know what to put into your show notes,
short summary about what you're talking about, just a general synopsis. You have the synopsis
up at the top, but more like a tuneliner summary of what you're talking about. And then if you
can't even think of that, just send me the links to what you're talking about in the show.
Because if you don't do that, then I will be doing it. And that tends to make maybe as we are all
techies and I have some blocking add-ons installed on my web browser. Do we do we have to allow
JavaScript in order for the yes, so JavaScript must be turned on before you go on the upload page or
not. No, no. If you go to the web page without JavaScript, it will be the old regular old
web page. So you can enter HTML and that's fine. And I will take it and fix it.
Yeah, but then you would have to fix it again. I meant. No, no, that's fine.
No, that's fine. Because if you put, if you put in HTML, all I do is copy the HTML,
paste it into the text file, press F5, that literally takes me two seconds. That's fine.
Don't worry about that. If you're, if you're using, but make sure you have the links in there.
The thing that takes me the longest is where there's an episode that I have, there's nothing
provided and I have to listen to the episode, which I don't like to do anywhere before a show
was posted because the whole point of you have to listen to it. So I have to review the show notes
or the transcriptions and try and pull out keywords and go to the Wikipedia article about whatever it
is. So if you mention the laptop, then I will go on and go to the Wikipedia article on the laptop.
Yeah, so it's not difficult. It's literally literally 10 minutes is all it takes.
I wasn't, I wasn't aware that you would be doing that. Yeah, but that's what Dave has been doing
for 12 years. So that the reason I gave him that job in the first place was because it was driving
me nuts for the five years I'd been doing that before. And now I come back and nothing, you know,
but that's fine. But it also takes a while for people to get into the idea of the
change the wzwg editor because I see all the shows coming in, but somebody might only
submit your show once every six months and then forget or whatever. So use the wzwg editor,
except for Mike. Yeah, this doesn't apply to you. Anybody who's using the JavaScript, anybody who's
using who's who has visually impaired or has any other reason not to do it. No problem. I'll do it.
Not a problem. I'm not complaining about that. But if you can, what I'm saying is you know what
your show is about. You know what the links are. If you put them in, it's a lot easier for me.
Then it's a lot easier than me having to go on. What does he mean? Does he mean this? Because
it ended up one of the episodes somebody was talking about a project. And I went and found
a project similar name to that and then added that to the show notes as a link. But it turns out
it was the wrong project. So I don't want to make that mistake again. So you know what you're
talking about. Put a link in the show notes. That would be great. And a link is fine. I mean,
ideally you want, you know, the Wikipedia summary and put that in here from Wikipedia, the free
insight to the video. That's also good. But you know, it's good that you explained yourself. So
so that you can compare the day. Dave was nice. I'm not. I'm at the wrath of Ken. She'll come
upon you. No, please keep sending in shows. And I will completely continue to complain about
no few notes. And that's fine. We can live in that world because at least shows are coming in.
So was this was just a part of the discussion you had in the Matrix the other day?
Uh, he was you and archer talking about this. Oh, yeah. No, I don't want to name names, but
yeah, it was archer. Really? He's just the band in my life. You know, that guy.
No, it wasn't archer. Archer is fine. It's it's sometimes, yeah, it was that discussion. That's
where where I brought up. And I don't mind talking to archer about it because he's a janitor as well.
So, um, Smith or what's the concept? Yeah, I was I was um, looking at looking at that. I think
one of the things that he brought up that was interesting. I thought it would work too. And you
mentioned that he had to render to HTML then post it rather than just having pan dogs spit out
the HTML. Yeah, they the thing about the render. So like what happens is you if you post the rendered
HTML into the form, it's going, I'm a busy week editor. So I'm going to what you see is what you
get. So it's going well, obviously this person's doing a podcast on HTML and wants to show the
source code of the HTML. So I will take all the greater than signs and convert them to HTML
A percent GT semicolon a href equals blah blah blah. Yeah, but that's not that's not a big deal
because all I can all I do is I open that in Libra and Firefox, right? And I copy it. And then
I all tab into the source code for the the HTML file that was submitted. And I replace it with
with that. So that fixes those issues. The only thing that happened during that was because my
processing script found an image, it pulled it down and the copy and paste lost that section.
That was it. All right, so that's good to know. I'll try to keep it simple going forward. Just
just keep it simple. Use use headers, use bullets and it's got this weird thing that you need to
highlight the link to make it a trickable link. And that's good. Yeah, and I probably should be
thinking about and this will hit the feeds probably in five years from now. When a show is posted
that we send a confirmation email to the to the host just to confirm that everything's going to
worry. But that's that's a by the by that is a by the by one thing I did want to comment about. And it
was in it was in reference to the every single you know host app. But there is some more to read
from the next month. Yeah, but it wasn't about that. It was about the it was about their terms
and conditions. They have licensing issues. Well, now they're all their stuff is freely
of an open source. You know, when when I'm talking about one second, when I'm talking about projects,
I want to I want to make sure that the project is freely of an open source and that the license
is compatible with HVR. You know, this is stuff that Dave is traditionally done the formatting and
I've done the making sure we don't get into trouble stuff. So if I hear music in a podcast,
for instance, I check that we've got the licenses for that music and that is critical comments and
compatible. But when when I was talking about the you know host applications, I was reading their
terms and conditions and they've got a really nice terms and conditions thing, which we need to do
shortly because it's kind of required by some of the laws the UK have a law coming up. We've
kind of avoided doing terms and conditions before I've mentioned that we have them in place.
And I've been on the lookout for something that would be kind of compatible with HVR. So they have
on their terms of service, they've got short version to long didn't read. This is a community
project clause. You accept and respect the fact that the project is maintained by a team of volunteers
and the volunteer time and energy are the driving force behind the project. You're welcome to
contribute to the project. Punctually or over time in any way, you choose whether it's thinking
about it around you, giving us constructive feedback, helping others, saying hi, translating,
testing, coding, donating. Some of that isn't as relevant to them, but not to us. But the spurs
of that is, yeah, this is a community project clause. It's a good one. We do what we can close.
You accept that the volunteer team does as best it can and is not subject to any obligation of
means as a result. The project can be held responsible for any consequences, damage if a service
ceases to operate. The team may decide to stop a service at any time. And this is related to their
applications. So I'm not sure the example is isn't great for us, but we do what we can close is
is a good one to keep in mind. We are not a fan. And if you don't know what that is, Facebook,
Alphabets, it's the Amazon, what's the other one? Netflix and Google or something. I don't know
yeah, the big, it's a financial term for the big players. We try to minimize as much as possible
the personal data that may transmiss be stored in our infrastructure or transfer to third parties.
We publish our code on our own servers. We do not result personal data. We only use data for
internal anonymized statistical purposes. And that's actually quite good. Although we're not
fine clauses, we respect your privacy clause will be better. We do not like toxic people clause.
You must respect other members of the community by showing civic mindedness, politeness and kindness.
Yep, turn off. Free software is not about volunteers doing your bidding clause.
Messaging the simply ask when a feature fixer update will be available that are intentionally or
unintentionally insistent without any form of likeness, benevolence or intention to contribute
are not welcome. If you would like a particular point to be addressed, ask yourself how you can
contribute or at very least speak kindly of it. Now that one's correct, but some people do have
issues with with communication and I get that. So it's interesting. The next one I love as well.
We do not read crystal balls, balls, balls. This forum and support chat clearly state that in
order to obtain help, it is necessary to provide basic information hardware type versions,
contextual elements and complete logs. Not doing so is extremely annoying for the volunteers
trying to help you. We do not want to go to jail cells. You must expect a law where it's well
whether it's well-made or silly. Any abuse will be punished clause, technical or human abuse
of the services may result in closure of your account and banning of access to some or all
of the services without warning or negotiation. That's a short version and then they go into
the long version, but I think it's pretty good. And how to think about that, we do probably need to
come up with a clause because of the U.K. Off-Comp have some sort of thing where they're
monitoring websites. And we have some UK hosts, so we could possibly be considered to be a U.K.
service, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, I think was it lobsters also reaching out to U.K.
members trying to figure things out. And I don't think it's a big deal. We do have a process in
place. It's fairly well defined. You know, boss, we're not the only ones struggling with this
sort of thing. So, well, not struggling with it, but basically JWP's granny thing if you're not
going to say it from the granny, then you shouldn't be saying that here. So somebody send a message somewhere
with the address to help or have some know how about it. Yeah, now let's let's it'll come through
the feed when it comes through the feed. Right now, we're going to focus on the approval or
disapproval of the policy change with regard to create a commons licensing. If somebody wants to
help contacting the old hosts about that, because a lot of them are moved on and we only have
admin at HBR email address. So might be an idea to those 180 of them that we might want to
track them down on Twitter or Facebook or something else in a polite, not creepy way, by the way,
and ask them. And it might also be begging for the book type thing, because I am a bit concerned
that we may need to filter the RSS feed going out and putting in replacing all non-commercial shows
with a, if you want to subscribe to the non-commercial ones, you need to go to this separate feed
where you're accepting that this is a non-commercial and you kind of use it for non-commercial stuff.
So we may have to, we may have to do that ourselves. I don't know how worried I am about that,
but it's something that could happen overnight where we get a cease and desist.
I used it as a, when plateau was, was responding there, I was going, well, counter to that.
What happened? What would happen if blah? And then I wrote the email and then a few days later,
I was going, well, I actually could happen. And how would we deal with that? So I have that in
place, but the general terms and conditions, if, if somebody's lawyery out there wants to do it,
that's okay, but I don't, I don't have the bandwidth for managing 15 different things at the same time.
Yep. That's a show. That's a show.
Tune in tomorrow for another sacking episode on Hacker.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it
is. Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive,
and our sync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
