Episode: 4363
Title: HPR4363: My First Episode for HPR 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4363/hpr4363.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:41:26

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4363 for Wednesday the 23rd of April 2025.
Today's show is entitled, My first episode for HBR.
It is the first show by Newhost Komok and is about two minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Long Time Listener First-Time Contributor.
Hey HBR community, this is Cosmos, Long Time Listener and First-Time Contributor.
Just a year of soaking up knowledge from this show, I'm thrilled to finally give back
with my own episode.
If you've heard my name before, it's probably from the forums on X or Taksabreddits over
the Reddit.
This episode marks the start of what I hope will be regular serious about my adventures
in Linux, free software and ham radio.
We expect everything from my Linux adventures and Python projects to occasional tangent
about my pile of unfinished Raspberry Pi and Arduino projects.
A huge thanks to the HBR community for inspiring the sleep.
If you're on defense about contributing, take it from me.
Just hit record.
Whether it's a 5 minute tip or a hour long deep dive, your voice belongs here.
You can find show notes on my contact info at HBR and I love to hear your feedback or
battery yet your own episode ideas.
I would like to conclude my first show with revealing the secret.
Why do programmers prefer cocktails over a beer?
Because sometimes, you just need a little bit of everything to function.
Don't worry, this episode was only lightly compiled, cheers to HBR community and remember
so they're responsibly.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it may be.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our Sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
