Episode: 4474
Title: HPR4474: Hacker Poetry - 001
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4474/hpr4474.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 01:02:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4474 for Thursday the 25th of September 2025.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Poetry 001.
It is the first show by new host Major Ursa and is about two minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is a show where hackers read poetry written by other hackers.
Welcome to Hacker Poetry, a podcast produced by the League of Better Villains and distributed
on Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host for this inaugural episode, Major Ursa.
I haxt a for fun and profit.
Each episode of Hacker Poetry will feature one or more original poems written by a hacker
and read by a hacker, though not necessarily the same hacker.
Before we begin our inaugural episode, a word from our sponsor, the League of Better Villains.
Tired, paniatic-fascists and blowwards who want to laugh and watch the world burn.
We are too.
That's why the League of Better Villains is striving to raise the bar and evil across our
big blue marble.
You deserve a grand done, better evil humanity.
Keep your eyes on the skies for the release of our short, honest men, coming to an open-air
market million this fall.
Flee the better villains, bow down to the best.
Welcome back to Hacker Poetry, I'm your host, Major Ursa.
Today we have three poems by an anonymous hacker.
To begin, we have...
At the first fires, man stood back to back with flame, howling annihilation into the dark.
The animals fled.
They knew nothing outlasts that endless hunger.
And now...
Rebutments.
Up down, over around, rivers with their banks.
Cold clay, bargains, within and without.
Finally...
Headline.
Billionaire goes missing.
Nobody searches too hard.
Must have gone to occupy Mars.
This concludes our first episode of Hacker Poetry.
I'd like to thank our distribution network, Hacker Public Radio, as well as our sponsor
producers, the League of Better Villains, bow down to the best.
I've been your host, Major Ursa, and your attention and investment are now and forever
mandatory.
See you next episode.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it may be.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
rsync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
