Episode: 4010
Title: HPR4010: Playing Alpha Centauri, Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4010/hpr4010.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:34:59

---

This is Hacker Public Radio, episode 410 for Friday the 15th of December 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Playing Alpha Centauri, Part 3.
It is part of the series' computer strategy games.
It is hosted by Ahukad, and is about 18 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Part 3 of Tips on Playing Alpha Centauri.
Hello, this is Ahukad, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
And our ongoing series about strategy games that I have played.
And I'm going to continue our exploration of Alpha Centauri.
And the reason I'm going into such depth about all of this is that, as I've said,
I think Alpha Centauri is in an unjustly overlooked game that has an immense amount of depth to it.
And it is eminently playable now, even though it's an older game.
There was just so much good stuff in there.
So, what I want to do now is get into the design workshop.
Now, in these kind of games, units in combat always become a rock paper scissors conflict,
where each player looks for countermeasures to offset the advantages an opponent has.
So, if your opponent has aircraft, you should look to get anti-air capabilities.
If your opponent builds sea bases, you might want to develop amphibious assault capabilities.
But where did these capabilities come from?
As in all 4x games, research in Alpha Centauri, we call it Labs, allows you to develop all of this.
Now, you may need to suspend disbelief just a little here,
because the backstory involves interstellar flight from Earth to Alpha Centauri,
which may make it odd that things like flight and amphibious operations have to be researched.
But the way I approach this is to think of it as a group of survivors after a crash landing,
who have to rebuild capabilities in the new environment.
Now, when you are researching, you have four broad categories of research,
as we discussed in looking at the HQ menu.
They are explore, discover, build, and conquer.
And if you're interested in a domination victory, you might think you would just focus on conquer.
But that would probably be a mistake.
You can do that for a short period as a tactic,
but bear in mind that every unit has to be built in a base and supported from that base,
so you need to have a strong industry, and that comes from build.
And if you want to keep advancing your technology, you need to build up your labs capability,
and that requires investing in discover.
So again, what we see is with all 4x games, the basic message is balance.
Only rarely and for a short time does it make sense to narrow your focus.
So, your labs are cranking out research, and they will make discoveries,
and some of those discoveries will enable better units.
Now, you can see a list of all of the units at Alpha Centauri Wiki,
and you can see that for most of the units, you have a prerequisite technology that has to be discovered.
And I've put a link in the show notes to this.
Now, you do have a few units of low capability from the moment you land,
but they won't get you very far.
When you land, for instance, you can build colony pods.
And you can build some basic infantry units called scout units that are equipped with hand weapons.
Now, these will let you do some exploring, which is very important.
You want to be exploring as much as possible to reveal the map and to find the unity pods.
These are the analog to the goody-huts of Civ games, but there's a lot more of them in Alpha Centauri.
And even if you don't want to go on the warpath, you will always want to maintain a good defense, so research is necessary.
Even something basic like building farms and mines requires some research as you have to get to Centauri ecology before you can build the former.
Former is short for transformer, and these are the units needed to build farms and mines.
Now, fortunately, that's an early technology, so it won't take you long, but you do have to do it.
Now, onto stats and capabilities. Every unit has four basic stats expressed as numbers.
The first number represents the weapons strength.
The second represents the armor strength.
The third represents the movement it can make, and the fourth represents the reactor rating.
So in a given unit, you might see something like 4, 1, 2 star 2.
But note that if the reactor rating is 1, they usually don't put it in the description of the unit.
So you might in the early game see something like 1, 2, 1 for an early Sentinel unit, usually used to defend bases.
Why do you know that that's for defense? Well, the second number 2 is the armor, so it has more armor.
It can withstand more.
Movement is not absolute, however, as it is affected by terrain, roads, etc.
As you do more research, new unit designs become available to you, and your scientists will throw up a screen showing the new units you can now build.
As you click on Done on each unit, the next one will come up until you've reviewed all of them.
Now, if you want to build one or more of these units, the first one you build will count as a prototype, and it will require a 50% increase in cost to build it.
After that, the design will appear in your design workshop with a note that the prototype is complete, which means you can build more at just the normal cost.
Now, the Spartan Federation can build prototypes without the increased costs, but they have other penalties, so everything is balanced.
Now, mind worms and psychic warfare.
Armor is a defense measure, but what can it defend against? It can defend against physical weapons, but it's important to realize it does nothing to defend you from mindworm attacks.
The only thing that will help you there is morale.
Mindworms launch psionic attacks or psychic attacks, and only a well-disciplined mind can resist, hence the importance of morale.
Now, as the game goes on, more is revealed about the mindworms, but there are basically two kinds, a land-based form, and a sea-based isle of the deep, which is roughly equivalent.
Now, if you have units with high morale, they stand a good chance of defeating the mindworms, but even better is capturing them and turning them into your own units.
Now, the guy affection is very good at this. They have a chance of doing this from the very beginning, and they will capture the first one they attack.
Now, your chances go up with your planet rating.
Now that there's also an airborne native form, less frequently encountered, called the locusts of Chiron, and they can attack planes.
The alien crossfire expansion added even more alien life forms.
One thing to keep in mind is that in Alpha Centauri, the attacker always gets a 25% bonus.
So, you will want to generally attack first when you encounter mindworms. Offense is safer than defense.
And just as your human units build up in stages, the alien life forms go through stages.
So, for the mindworms, they start as hatchling, then larval mass, then pre-boil, then boil, then mature boil, then great boil, and finally demon boil.
Now, this can be thought of as analogous to the morale levels of human units. And just like with human units, winning a battle will give them a chance to go up a level.
Gaia can have an effective military when they capture some mindworms and level them up.
Demon boils can often often capture someone else's base by themselves.
But if you keep researching, there are technologies to provide protection, such as eudaimonic armor, which adds anti-cycapability to your units.
Now, what about designing your own?
You know, the game gives you certain designs that you can use as your technology improves, and you could simply accept those designs.
And if your governors are put into conquer mode, they will start turning out units.
And as your technology improves, and your units get better, they will turn to the new units.
As we said, the first unit of a new design is a prototype and will cost 50% more unless you're the Spartans.
But whichever governor builds the first one will pay the extra. This is only paid once, not once per base.
So, once the first prototype has been built, other bases can then build one as well at the normal cost.
But sometimes you may want to design your own units instead of taking the ones they give you.
To do this, go into the HQ menu, select Design Workshop, and start picking out the features you want.
You can select from four equipment categories, plus up to two special abilities.
Now, you can get a very detailed look at the options available to you in the Alpha Centauri Wiki, link in the show notes.
But the two things to keep in mind when you're looking at the options are first that you can only choose options that you have researched.
For example, in the first category, chassis, you have infantry available to you right away without needing to do any research.
But every other one requires research.
Two that you will probably get pretty early on are the speeder.
And the prerequisite for that is doctrine mobility.
Remember, that's the one that the Spartans have at the very beginning automatically.
And the foil, a sea unit, and the prerequisite for that is doctrine flexibility.
So, as we said previously, you need to keep up your research if you want a strong military.
The second thing to keep in mind is that everything has a cost.
You will see a cost factor listed for each choice you can make.
But that goes into a complicated formula to determine the final cost of the unit.
Now, you can find that formula at the Alpha Centauri Wiki page that I mentioned, but for most of us that's overkill.
The game developers had to worry about this for play balancing.
But for playing the game, you just need to know that each thing you add increases the cost.
And that you can see the running total of the cost on the design screen as you make changes.
Now, the first category is chassis.
This can be land, sea, or air.
Land and sea units can bombard each other if they have the bombard capability.
But otherwise, cannot attack each other.
Air units can attack any land or sea unit.
But to an attack an air unit in flight, you need to have air units that have air superiority as a special ability.
Then there's the weapon category.
You start out with hand weapons for your infantry, chassis, which is the lowest capability.
Do a little research and you can get lasers, then a bit later particle impactors.
Now, this category also houses some utility vehicles such as colony pods,
farmers, probe teams, and transports.
Now, category three is armor.
You don't start with any armor capability, but through research you can get some.
When you discover industrial base, which is a fairly early technology,
you get the ability to add synth metal armor.
As mentioned above, there is a technology called Udiamonia that lets you build armor that depends against sciatex.
And the alien crossfire expansion also added a couple more called resonance three armor and resonance eight armor.
The last category is for reactors.
These are not intuitive.
What they really do is affect the hit points of your units.
The more hit points, the harder it is to kill the unit.
The way I think of it is to put it in terms I'm used to in space combat games where ships have both armor and shields.
And in this case, the reactors like the shields.
It's not a perfect analogy, but when I first saw reactors, I thought of the power plant for weapons and vehicle speed.
And that led me astray until I figured it out.
Now, once you've finished with your categories, you can also add up to two special abilities.
Now, some of these are restricted to certain units or chassis types, but there are a number of them.
Of course, you have to research the technologies that unlock these options, but you can do things like add anti-aircraft capabilities,
or add a marine detachment to enable unit and so on.
Now, what about unit support and obsolete units?
Clearly, as you continue to research new technologies and build more advanced units, some of your older units will become obsolete.
Now, the game will mark them as obsolete for you or you can decide to do it yourself.
One significance of the obsolete designation is that the design is removed from your production screen, and you can never build obsolete units.
But the design still exists in the design workshop, and any existing units still exist.
Now, at this point, you have two options.
You can do an upgrade to a currently relevant design, which will be costly in terms of energy, so you want a healthy treasury if you're upgrading more than one or two units.
The advantage to doing this is that the unit might have achieved a very high morale, and it keeps that in the upgrade, so it might be worthwhile to upgrade.
The other option is to retire the design, and that's different from making it obsolete. Retiring it means it will disband any units of that type.
Now, why would you do that? Well, in general, units require support, which you can see in the base window on the right and the design screen, where each unit will be pictured, and the support, one of minerals per unit, charged to the base, is displayed.
If you run short of minerals, the base will start disbanding military units to get back into balance, and they might not be the units you would choose.
So retiring obsolete units can make a great deal of sense to save on support.
Now, depending on your support rating, you might get a few units that don't require support, but it is a good practice to weed out the old stuff from time to time.
The other reason you should retire designs is that you can run out of design slots in the late game, so freeing up some slots through retirement is not a bad thing, and it can help declutter your screen a little.
Now, one last note, you don't need to get into this to have a fun game.
You could just accept the designs that the game gives you, you could just let your governors build whatever units they want and lead them in the battle as you wish.
But there may come a time when you will want to know about this, because none of your units is exactly what you need to solve a problem, for instance, like adding anti-air capabilities.
If you have a ground-based unit that has anti-air capabilities, it suddenly does a lot better if someone sends an air unit to attack you.
So, this is Ahuka for Hacker Public Radio of signing off and encouraging you to support FreeSoftware. Bye-bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
