Episode: 4481
Title: HPR4481: HPR Community News for September 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4481/hpr4481.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 01:09:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4481 for Monday the 6th of October 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for September 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 83 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in September
2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Kim Falun, you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today it is the Community News for September 2025.
Joining me live from the United States of America is Scatty from the Free Independence
Scotland.
We have, we have, we have, and from the lowlands of Holland, you have me, Ken Falun.
HBR is Community Podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday and
what makes us different from other podcasts is that we have been running for 20 years.
Number one, for number two, we are a podcast where the shows are released by people in
the community very much, in fact, identical to the people listening to this episode.
And this is the HBR Community News put on by the HBR volunteers, also known as the janitors,
who listen to all the shows during the month and then will provide some feedback.
And hopefully that will involve reading out the comments that you posted, support of
comments no doubt, to episodes so that everybody has some feedback.
So that's what this show is.
If you stick on to the end, there are some policy changes that are going to be occurring
that I need your feedback on.
So your attention will be appreciated for that.
However, who would like to introduce the new hosts?
How about Scatty do the first?
Oh.
Or the second.
Yeah, the first one's the time.
That's what we check.
Major Ersa.
Ersa.
And we had a new host, Wojciech from Poland.
So welcome, our new hosts.
It's always nice to have new hosts coming in, particularly a month where there are two
new hosts.
So we are also looking at, I'm looking at the queue right now.
And we have, after a little splurge after the vacation period was over, we have a lot
of empty slots coming up.
We have two empty slots next week, which, unless shows come in, will be reserve shows.
And one free slot the week after that, and then the weeks after that are completely empty.
So that's the state of the queue, and you know the rule.
If we don't get shows, we shut up, shall.
That's how it works.
So shall we go through the episodes for the last month?
Yeah.
And this could be a short show if we don't.
It could be yes.
I make it like it was an option.
The first episode was episode 4456, which was a HBR community news for August 2025.
That doesn't always happen, but it just happened this month.
And there were three count on three comments so we can give them up ourselves.
I will do the last one who wants to do the first one.
Yeah, I'll do that one.
So this is comment one by Candy Canierter, showed out.
I probably can't make an entire show about making some basic mods, but I appreciate the
positive comments and making little code projects for myself is really fun.
Also, it's Candy Kane Arter.
All right, okay.
After me totally mucking up that.
So thank you.
That's so important.
Those things out.
The name on that one, I'm not going to be able to get that, but pronouncing my name.
Hello there.
It's a mistake in pronouncing my name.
The letter sounds like KH.
It's a letter and they give some more information on the letter.
It's an Arabic alphabet letter.
The funny thing is that the same mistake has been done in the British teachers who were
in my primary school, although I used to write my name in English letters, I'm mad.
I would expect that the English speakers would pronounce the letter as H, yet that's
not what happened.
And the next is Ken.
Yep.
Hi.
Ha.
Mad.
Thanks for the feedback.
That was probably wrong as well, but I've tried.
I have a long history of mispronouncing people names here of the community news, so it's
not intentional.
I'm not just you.
However, the more schools you send in, the better the chances that I'll get it correct.
See what it did there, guys?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I grew up at 100%.
Yeah.
Yes, maybe subtle.
Yes.
Totally.
Yeah.
So that's for sure.
Yeah.
The whole thing about name pronunciation is amazing.
I have.
Yeah.
So the following day was 4, 4, 5, 7 by Jezra DoDoDuce, and this is a, Jezra is making
an episode series of episodes about making a to-do application using the rest protocols,
which is quite interesting, particularly like his juvenile approach to naming stuff.
Totally.
Actually, I'm loving how he's actually given us such a regular update on this.
I mean, I must admit, it's one that I'm definitely going to try and either really reviewed
for Alex Jammer review for each PR episode, but I've enjoyed this.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm a caveman.
I'm still using, you know, painting paper and stuff like that, but I enjoy the show.
I particularly liked his idea that, or, you know, the concept of that he doesn't, the
pen and paper doesn't travel around with you, where is your phone tends to do?
So I'm inclined to agree with his logic, but I have had a long history of having unsuccessful
nor ticking applications, both physical and otherwise.
Yeah, I must admit, I am totally for the phone version, because like you say, it's always
in the pocket.
And also, I'm sick of, where's the list?
Oh, we left it on the kitchen table.
Oh.
This sounds like you guys need to get yourselves a fanny pack.
That sounds totally different in this side of the Atlantic.
Oh, so embarrassing.
It reminds me of a presentation, a HR person from the state's give in front of an
entire building of people, and we all need to get off our fanny, and we all need to do
this.
That's what it means to be different this side.
Yeah, exactly.
Wait, that means something different over there?
Oh, am I swearing or something?
Yeah.
Oh, really?
Holy smokes.
Which is why you got to be careful when you post your shows, you know, it doesn't cause
a fence in any language, in any country in any language, so you've got to be super careful.
However, the following day, we had creating an animation in PowerPoint, and this by David
Hingley, who we've met on, I think, over at our camp at least a few times, maybe a
fourth time, but this was an interesting one just using PowerPoint to slap out a quick
animation.
Yeah.
I thought I'd only enjoyed this.
The biggest issue was I listened to these on my commute to work, and this actually made
me want to kind of read us into it and actually go through it with a computer in front of
me.
So if you wanted those on my to-do list, whether it's actually a replying show, or whether
it's a comment, I need to actually get around to doing it to see how I do this.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Where are we now?
I'm a bit lost.
Following day.
How have I gotten to tea?
Oh, yeah.
Four or five, nine.
Yeah, my check is from Poland, and for a microsecond, I thought this was one of my colleagues
from Poland, who sent it in the show, but it wasn't, despite five years of badgering
them every day to send in an episode that never managed to do it.
Well, this was a cool episode, loads of stuff in there, mortal combat, you guys can bug
him to do shows about computers and about gaming, and we get computers, we'll be interesting
about all tones, Atari 2600 and nezuses, Schneider computers, do anyone ever hear of them?
No, that's what I was going to ask, is this something I've mistook?
And his first computer was a 48612 megawatts RAM and 850 megawatts hardest, that was massive
at the time.
Yeah.
Totally.
Turbo Pascal, that brings back memories, it was my first programming language.
Yeah, that's how you got the askamedes, I remember, sorry, Scotty.
My apologies.
I thought you guys all learned on like, was it assembly or something?
I'm not that old.
Although, yeah, the first program I officially learned was on punch cards using CNC machines.
So yeah, hi, suppose.
But great episode, Wojczyk, people, if you want to leave some comments, they're encouraging
Wojczyk to list of shows.
Archer 72 says, hi Wojczyk, it was a great first show with a lot of interesting topics
to your question.
How do you was good?
And so was your English eye for one looking forward to your October story, Baduč.
And Antrim said, welcome, it is an interesting beginning on teach and horror show would
be interesting, I agree, all the one English were good for me.
Do we got Hindrik, I apologize in advance, hello Wojczyk, I can't, it's like Woj Wojczyk,
I guess.
Woj.
It's tough.
The huge big asterix, like we already had a comment from somebody about how I butcher the
name.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a bit tough.
Hi Wojczyk.
For me, the non-English listener, your English is fine, well understandable and good speed.
Thank you for your first episode.
Andri says, I presume it's McNally, excellent for a show.
Just wanted to say that your HBO technology story was great to hear your English and all
of you were both fine.
You do speak quickly, but I've grown up in New York, speaking fast sounds perfectly normal
to me.
Thanks for keeping HBR interesting.
But not me, Andrew, you know, grew up in Glasgow, yeah, that's right, Andrew McNally.
That's right.
And Paul Jay says, welcome, hi Wojczyk, many thanks for the show.
Your sound quality was great, no problem with English delivery.
I look forward to more shows from you in the future, best regards, Paul.
Yeah, that was a good introductory show.
I thought I'd enjoyed it and he crossed a lot of, I'm actually quite interesting, having
my first console is Italian 2600.
But he's obviously the fact his first PC was running Windows 95, he's a bit younger than
me.
So it would be action seemed to find out, speak to him about the clones, actually, of the
2600.
Okay, the following day we had Artesee Clark, this is in a hookah series about science fiction.
Some very good links in here about Artesee Clark, another favorite of mine.
Yes, they were.
They were totally enjoyed it.
Yeah.
I love these shows and I'm still trying to get caught up on the foundation, I'm waiting
for the library to cycle my next copies through, but yes, I will eventually catch up to
this as well.
Well, I had never read any Artesee Clark at all, but I just haven't.
It's one of these, he's been on one of these two read piles for ages, so I actually
just went and see what I could get locally and I managed to get a city on the stars.
I started reading it yesterday and I'm a bit rage-chapterish and thoroughly enjoyed it.
So yeah, these have been good and it's good to hear people actually recommending these
kind of, these authors because they're probably the kind of ones that, yeah, you know the classic
author's sci-fi and things, but very often you might actually pass them over until somebody
says, you read them, they're right.
Artesee language.
I love the language.
Yeah, I love the language from the time when that these authors use.
Yeah, totally.
A smidgen of their time, though, politically correctness wise, but.
Yes.
So the next day, we had a battle of the mics with Lee and I'll be meeting up with Lee and
Elizabeth Barrow.
They're over visiting the Netherlands and we're going to meet up for a while, so I'm looking
forward to that.
And it is a simple enough show.
He, Lee records, he has five options for recording, recording a HDR episode and uses all
five recordings and as a comparison, the only thing I would say is that if we're doing
it again, maybe a longer passage, I believe somebody else did something similar in the
past, can't remember who it was now, where they read out the BSD license or the first two
or three sentences so we can get a little bit of variation in the sounds and the feedback
of the P and the different mouth movements, et cetera, but a good one for comparing mics
and stuff.
Yeah, absolutely.
I liked how he wasn't just going down the whole, you know, these are the ones I've used
in the past, you know, going to quite expensive microphones exclusively.
He also used, you know, like the microphone office iPad and one office MacBook and things
to go.
He really enjoyed it.
Like you see that, that's the only bit of constructive criticism I'd say to him, maybe
just read something a bit longer so we can get actually a proper gauge of the microphones.
And Candy, can either zero seven said interesting dive into the topic, not thought about
often.
I like how the quality of the mics were tested in the controlled way and playback so
you can hear the sound quality, obviously different mics produce varying quality, but
it's something I at least don't usually think about beyond this sounds a bit crunched.
I was, I was all the comments on that show.
I think is he trying to make us at the, what's your word, play on words here because you
got candy cane, art art and candy crunched, yeah.
I mean, is this a technique that normally happens on, on the web now where you don't
use any capitals in the comments, presumably, we're far too old to be considered young these
days or with it.
So hum the clue.
So following day, we had the first in what I know to be a series of episodes by Kevin
and Dave are too long standing holes, HBR beer garden introduction and desert desert
stouts, not desert stouts, that will be a bit specific.
That'll be very dry.
I'd imagine.
Right.
That's it.
Go in the corner.
Think well about what you've done.
Couldn't resist.
Couldn't resist.
This is your show where you're, where you're going through basically drinking beers and
I love the sound effects, I've been listening to these driving down the motorway, up the motorway
actually to, this is my daughter, a youngest actually who's in long term care and yeah, you're
the click and you go, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, all right, when I get home,
when I have this done, I will be out of a crack in the tinny myself.
You know, I arrived back too late, but anyway, still.
That's a shame, but we didn't courage, that's good, it's good that we're having that
positive.
You're encouraging drinking, yes, good man, yeah.
Well, that's what worries me.
We got a message.
I think we've read it out the last show, it wasn't through HPR, but somebody actually
messaged and said, this, this show makes me want to start drinking again, it's brilliant,
and I'm going, that's not why we did it, trust me, that's really not why we did it, especially
if you had stopped.
Yeah, exactly.
I did, there was Scotty, do you want to do the response?
Yes, we have TA spinner, thoughts, love your exploring beers, that name's going to
be difficult for me there.
Half a vise, oh, lovely, love your exploring beers, I enjoy stout for the first time.
I've never tried a dessert stout, but planned to, and I am curious as to what you think
of this beverage, my current favorite, have, have, have, have, I'm going to need some
practice on that.
Well, it's a good job that myself and Dave are dedicated, because we are practicing,
and I found actually a couple of international available ones in the supermarkets here,
but there's one of the local breweries, have their own half a vise, and so I bought that
today, so one for the future.
Oh, excellent, you heard it here, folks, spoiler.
Yes, so the idea with this is just, you have to very briefly just mention it.
This was something, myself and Dave, we're planning a wee quile, and then we kind of initially
was going to be a standalone, and we thought, let's make it into an HPR series, and we're
instead of reviewing individual beers as such, or folks may show, we thought, well, not
everybody can get the same beers, especially when you cross the Atlantic, it's totally different,
but everybody can get a style of beer.
So that's what we're doing.
We're not just doing styles, we're kind of doing sub-styles as well, so look out for more.
Hefevising?
That's it.
It gets easier, the closer to the bottom of the beer you get.
Yes, so actually I'll also say as well, if anybody listening wants to come on and actually
do a show with us, you're more than welcome, just drop us a comment or send us an email
or something.
Contact us in the show so you're going to listen to it.
So the following day, we had a quick announcement about the Solfen Freedom Day in New Jersey, and
Murph apologises for the length of the show.
He proposes to send in a shorter one in the future, and thanks to Huka for allowing us
to move his show for to pop this on in, because it was a timely announcement.
Yep, thoroughly enjoyed it.
I just couldn't get over how quickly it was over, because I was like, oh, this sounds good.
What do you mean that's it done?
So, yeah, that mind you, I suppose.
One thing it does what it says on the turn, it's an advert for an event, and he does it very
well.
In, give them the information.
Get the hell out of there.
Last thing, if anyone was there at that event, and could do a show, you know, quick summary
about what it was like and stuff, also if you are going to show at a minimum, you can
record afterwards what the show, what your experience of the event was like.
Also do interviews there for HBR, you're a roving correspondent, that's absolutely approved
and allowed and approved.
And if they've got boots and stuff or have tables, there's a boot kit going around.
And if you can organize two or three people to help you sit there and tell everybody what
HBR is and what we do.
That's if people are going back to more conferences is something that definitely brings in new
hosts.
We know this for sure.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Yes, well, certainly, I do remember from my old camp experience, you certainly weren't
shy about encouraging shows.
Exactly.
Okay, the next day we had replacing a track pad on my laptop by Claudio, and congratulations
to Claudio and his lovely wife on their recent marriage.
So congratulations from all the HBR community and long life and happiness to you both.
However, this was about taking a gamble and trying to fix a track pad on this laptop.
So it was a kind of generic brand laptop and it was a bit of a gamble.
And you go after the listen to the episode to find out if the gamble paid off or not.
Yeah, absolutely.
That was actually a really good episode.
I thoroughly enjoyed listening to this and the things we should be encouraging more
of this because it annoys me.
We live in such a dash through our way society and you're thinking half of these things
don't need to be thrown away.
It's so annoying.
And the following day we had civilization, the part three, five part three.
And there we had victory types and terrain, victory types and terrain.
So they list the different types of victory types that there are.
And the differences in terrain that are available, I popped that in there.
Yes.
Well, you've actually pretty much covered it.
I'm not going to start going down the different ones, but well, with civilization, those
you haven't played it, it's not something I'll go on forever.
You do get a certain number of moves and you can have the victory type as being the
person who gets the best in this or this person to achieve this within the set amount.
First, if that makes sense, they're like, they're very different ones.
I mean, you get like so the, you know, if you wanted like our tradition of RTS, there
is a domination one where you just had to wipe out everybody else, but you can also do things
like cultural victories where, you know, you've gotten far more, it's far more of a building
up and getting not just cities or boxes, but actually getting culture into them.
And I don't want to spoil too much, but yeah, I thought I'd enjoyed it.
You also went on to talk about terrain and I think civilization five was the first one
to use hex tiles, if I remember rightly, but obviously each tile is a certain type
of terrain.
And it will cost you.
So if you move through it, there'll be a cost of food, there'll be a cost of, there
might be an actual cost cost as well.
So like some of them, if you want to go through it, you're going to spend gold.
So if it's special water, it costs you gold in the game.
So yeah, actually, I really enjoyed that and he's also spoke about if you want to place
things onto it, build something onto it, you're going to have some advantages, disadvantages.
So yeah, thoroughly enjoyed it from Mahooka.
So following day, we had episode four, four, six, six Hitchbier music project walking
tune towards a friend and this was by Fred Black and he actually, there's, he actually
posted the wrong audio for the show, which ended up in us having two shows.
So we later on in the month, we guess the actual audio that he intended to send in.
About the idea of sending in a show like this, something absolutely fine.
So Candy can eat or zero something, said quite unique idea for a show.
This was definitely out of the ordinary, but I liked how the song sounded and I hope
your friend liked it as well, smiley face.
Yeah, can't really add too much to that.
It was a very short and sweet show.
For once, it was, I thought Murphs would be the shortest show of the month.
No, he actually managed to get even more to do it.
Well, sometimes we have like eight hour feels so swings and roundabouts, I guess.
Then from the vineyards of France, we had Yerun coming in with a small, old, old usage intro
and a larger technical bit.
So this is a series about using the business application.
So from what I can gather, it's like the WordPress of developers.
So as he says, the technical menu, you need to be very careful about changes being
made in there.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, totally.
It's interesting here because it's not something I would have had any interest in looking at myself,
but it is good to hear people talking about this and the depth he's going into.
I mean, for me, a lot of it does get a bit wasted, but I'm not actually the target audience
for this one.
But it is really good.
And if I was building up and all do, say it out, I don't know, that's right word I'm
going to say, but yeah, this would be well worth recommending to anybody who's interested
for this because he's really doing such a thorough job on it.
Again, anything else here in HBO, you know, just because you're not, it's not relevant
to you now.
It doesn't mean it won't be in the future, you know, somebody's, you're out somewhere
talking to somebody and you go on, hold on a second, there was somebody is looking for
a business application, but doesn't want to pay a SAP and you know, hold on, there's
a whole series of shows here in HBO about that.
That's happened to me more than once in the past.
Oh, absolutely, absolutely.
So the following day, we had the AI trap and fix where Archer 72 breaks the icons on
the system and gets them back together.
I think the breaking icons bit was with the help of AI and getting them back together
was with the help of just regular searching for stuff.
Yeah, this one gave me a chuckle listening to it, but I was the one thing that made me
think was the way Archer is, why in the world was he even trying AI as far as more various
not overly privileged, and this isn't going to encourage him either.
Exactly, and I just, you know, we've all been there where you do something silly like
this and, you know, all your icons are gone.
But the thing about running Linux is, you know, that, that happens sometimes and you
just go, okay, that's just happened, but it's not necessarily a reason to panic.
It's just right.
I'll fix that when I get around to it or if I can't be the only one who has done that
in the past.
Absolutely.
And this is where I love the fact it's so community-based.
It's not people saying, you know, I'm keeping it for myself.
You know, people do tend to share, especially the list community, they do tend to share,
I've seen, look, this is what I did and this is how I fixed it in case you have the same
thing.
Exactly.
Not all of them write nothing, where he's a podcaster, but it's all well done, well done.
I'm curious about the Gnome thing though.
I thought Archer was a KDE kind of guy.
So the whole Gnome thing was interesting, but I'm not surprised that he's out there fooling
around with the AI.
Archer's got an addiction.
We're going to have to take him to rehab over this AI.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the following day we had disagree with me, three statements about life and living
by Antoine, and one, two, and three, while you're just going to have to listen to the
show to find out what he's on about.
This made me think of one of those, this isn't the show, this is just the beginning of
discussion.
I mean, really, if you want a full philosophy debate at the discussion, this is perfect
for it.
Absolutely.
Yes.
You know, you know what this brought me back to?
One of my all-time favorite shows, D&T, when he brought up the Toil versus, was it Toil
in livelihood or something like that?
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
It reminded me very much of that.
And by the way, D&T, where are you?
You know, another episode.
Oh, thank you.
All this for giving.
Yeah.
The following day, we had a show by Lee.
And at that time, I was working on some commemorative show idea.
And then the next day, and I said to myself, I need to do something.
And then the next thing, Lee said in this, and I went, OK, that's it.
I'm not basically his experience of HBO, not necessarily, which, of course, will be
everybody's experience in HBO, and he's missed loads of hosts, and he's missed loads
of shows.
And if your name wasn't in the lineup, that's, don't take that to heart.
Your contributions are very welcome, but, you know, it's Lee's experience of an episode.
So it was good.
It was amazing, the various different areas that HBO gets into.
Oh, totally.
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
And I thought he did well in that.
It wasn't too short that it was pointless, but it wasn't too long that you're like, yeah,
hurry up, get over this clip.
I thought you thought he timed these to perfection.
But of course, the shame of it is, I mean, you're always going to think, oh, he should have
collected it.
He should have that, should have had that, should have had that.
And, you know, the thing is, like you say, it's his experience, you know, so it is.
He did a good, a good variety, but please, anybody who's, you know, not, not mentioned,
please don't take it to heart, don't get offended.
Those are just the ones that stick.
I mean, if we were all to give our top 20 shows, we remember the most, we're not going
to come up with even likely the same 20.
Well, that is a good topic for a show.
I mean, if he'll excuse me, if a hook he can do his series on, uh, Libri Office, yeah,
or no, I mean, on, on what YouTube subscriptions he's listening to, your top 10 favorite
HPR shows will be a great topic to have, um, simply because, you know, you could tell
us what the show was about, why it impacted you.
For example, number one on my list would be all soldiers by, um, Lost in Bronx, which
was about, um, about podcasts fading and the correct way to do that.
And, um, HPR should to continue or not, and without that show, that show directly prompted
me to help out with HPR, which took HPR in a completely different direction.
And a lot has changed in that time and the whole thing about, as I said earlier, as soon
as they, we run out of episodes, that's inspired by that show.
So huge, huge impacts some shows can have.
So, um, even, you know, top 10, I said, but, you know, even if you want to do like top three,
or this is the HPR show that has impacted me most, you know, I'd love to hear about it.
Yeah, totally.
Totally, I get that.
Agreed.
I mean, do you know what would be cool is if later somebody did the series and referred
to one of those meta shows that referred to another show?
It's like the whole recurrent recurrence thing.
Anyway, Krivenu said congrats.
I will ignore that you make me feel old.
It was awesome to relive the history and enjoy the voices of all friends.
Thank you.
And Claudio M said happy 20th anniversary.
A big congratulations to HPR for 20 years, a little late on mine to respond, but better
late than never.
Perfect.
And then we had the TI 82 music and password manager.
Sometimes I don't know what operators talking about.
And then I kind of have to go back and relisten this.
So I was not aware of the TI 80 as a calculator.
I imagine, since then, I've found out that it's, um, being the basis of the basis of
calculators for secondary schools in the US.
So that makes it more, more obvious what he's doing.
Could all Texas instruments?
Yeah, that would be a good contract to get wouldn't it?
Definitely.
Right.
So we've got a message off now.
This person has left quite a few this month.
Great to see.
Candy, K and Arter, O7, TI Calc history.
I really miss when the fancier TI calculators, the ones that you could program on were
more popular.
I personally never could load any games on it or anything since our school never gave
us a transfer cable or the software to do it.
But I was always fascinated by the idea I used to love messaging with the bulletin programs
in class.
Cool.
I didn't know that this was a possibility because we were not allowed programmable calculators
at all.
Just scientific calculators.
Interesting.
The following day, go ahead over.
Sorry.
I was thinking about an article about discussing that calculator design needs to change.
We long story short, they were saying that we should be using basically IDEs now instead
of calculators because of the whole contract and everything going on now with calculators
and how it's all fit toward the hand versus we have a full keyboard, et cetera, et cetera.
Okay.
The next day, we had cheap yellow display project introduction to the cheap yellow display.
And this is by Trey and it's part of a series, which is great.
And it's an introduction to this display thing.
And the reason why I was so excited to see that is that there are three of them sitting
up here in my drawer and none of which I had used because I have a whole goal of projects
that need to be done down here and half an hour at the time.
But this is good might eventually get me off my bus and ask me what you're going to
do with the episodes or with the displays.
And if you have ideas, add it as a comment or better yet, do your own show.
Absolutely.
I had never heard of this until then.
And I heard it with that morning, it was released, the CYD and then you had a burning
sensation in your pocket, did you?
Actually, no.
The next thing it was was I thought, cool idea, but I don't need more stuff to clog up
the area.
And the next thing, I'll sense a text to the group, we have to get this into your own project
and review it for the next show.
So of course, guess what's next to me just now?
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
I was a bit of hold it up and then realized we're not on video camera.
We can send a link into your show when you release it.
Yeah, yeah, we'll do that.
Then speaking of your shows, if you're Beard Garden, Vosentwo, what is it?
What is it?
We have a comment.
We have a comment about Archer 72.
The following following the series, HiTray.
I have been following this series on the future feed.
This has been an interesting use of the CYD so far and I look forward to the future
shows.
Archer 72.
I did the same thing.
I've been binge watched them, so you all don't know what he's going to do yet, Vosentwo.
It will become obvious.
Okay, and now the following day we had HiTray Beard Garden 2, IPA.
Oh, not just IPA.
Session IPAs.
Session IPAs.
Yes.
I was, I'm now on the A1, anytime I think about podcasts, I flashback to where I was when
I heard that.
It doesn't matter if I go back to any of the podcasts that's more on the HPR, I flashback
to that particular spot and I was driving up the road listening to this.
I had no idea what a session IPA was.
It was a bit of a tangent there, sorry about that, fucks.
Now you're fine.
I'm very tired.
And did you, did you fix this issue?
No, because I really dislike IPAs to the point where they make me slightly ill.
Oh, well, no, like I said, if you, if you, I'm not the Worms biggest fan because I find
so many of the mass produced ones are generic, but as an IPA for me is awful, I can't
think of me that kind of like clear from the show that this was not my style at all.
I would have, I would have, you know, Humored Dave and had one for sure for the purposes
of what I was definitely with you and I think I also agree, like for some reason, you know,
we had, we had a lovely period there where there are microberries and they had their
own different tastes, the beer and then it just all went boom IPA, IPA, IPA, IPA, IPA.
Yeah, totally.
It's really annoying.
Yeah, but I don't want to say too much more purely because people won't listen to it.
So yeah, go back and listen to session IPAs and, yeah, and I have to, I have to have
a confession that we use the sounds for the very start of the show and I've got to put
the links into the first episode of show notes so they add in the subsequent ones.
That's very good.
Oh, if you remind me, I can go back and put them in.
I don't thank you.
No, you know, you know, you have me that I didn't check to see the licensing of those
because that's something I normally do.
Yeah, I don't know what I didn't want to give you a headache.
It was all clear to comments once.
Yeah, I checked them all since.
So they're all fine.
Then you had a comment from a weird Irish guy who says, floss beer trackers, high chaps,
can you do an episode on how to go about classifying a beer?
Do you use floss beer trackers possibly on F-Droid?
Thanks.
Yeah, we'll, we'll get to this in the next show.
Yeah, so I don't want to say too much, but I was talking a bit, Dave, and it was
sort of classifying beers.
I mean, you said about 80 Irish shows.
We could probably beat that.
Absolutely.
Well, I was thinking if people, you know, it's not conceivable that everybody joins at
the same time, but if somebody wanted to, all right, here's how I go about classifying
a beer.
It was more of the homework.
But let's see what.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Let's see what you're, what you can work with.
And the reason I ask it is that I've had, I've tried to classify a beer twice, you know,
the same beer with six months in between, and what I came up with were two completely
different reviews.
So how do you get around that?
Yeah, well, I mean, I think I mentioned it actually in the show.
The beer I actually had, thankfully, didn't taste like a session IP or even IP at all.
It tasted far more like a golden nail.
So I was very much convinced that it was re, it was branded wrongly.
But I'm not complaining because we bet and I was expecting it to be, that, that, that
way that I was expected to be, that's like the bar is so low, I'm going to have to start
digging before I'm going to make a little, the following day, whatever what you wish for
actually.
You said that this sounds like I sure you've got to record them.
So now you've got your CDs, by the way, we're not shutting up.
Carry on, I'm enjoying it, I'm just hoping you get to something that I can actually buy
at some point.
That's never going to get a nice disclaimer.
I'm going to have to bring you on tour over here and we can go do a live session.
Oh, that would be good, yes, I thought we did that.
And from the first following day was Hacker Poetry 001, which I love to see because A is
shows that there's going to be more.
And number two, it's from a new host.
And this harkens back to the original foundations of HPR where we do this sort of Hackerie stuff.
Now of course, I did have to check with the host and make sure that they're understand
that HPR is a podcast, not a podcast distribution network and they're cool with that.
So first thing, first three poems.
And there was a comment from candy can eight or zero seven.
And we're deliberately pronouncing your name incorrectly, I guess.
Yeah, I think after they've seen how to pronounce it, I think you're just kind of a start
and annoy them deliberately.
Well, you're going to have to do a show just to tell us how you pronounce that properly.
The comment says, I love it.
I really like this idea.
The whole thing of having thought provoking poems is pretty cool, despite the length being
kind of short, which I agree with actually there.
And then the question is, also, is the league of better villains a real thing?
That's just what they want you to think.
Yes.
Very good.
I like it.
It's very hacky.
And we like that sort of thing.
And then the next day episode 4475 was Fred Black with the actual show that he meant
to send in.
And he also has the music sheet for the song as well and the tune.
So there you go.
For the tune, actually, no, it's not a song as such.
Yeah, this one gave me a chuckle actually with the first one, saying, no, that was almost
meant to do.
This is what it was.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I was going, yeah.
Okay, fine.
It's like all songs considered as the only thing I would have put it in under, but this,
it made more sense when you listen to this show because, you know, he's teaching somebody
the song.
And then at the end, you get the song.
So good.
Then we had Trollocoster.
Does AI cause brain damage going through the findings of a MIT study?
And it was about cognitive test, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
And there's quite a few.
I did like this show and there, I think they comments cover all my feelings.
So trace as excellent episode, Trollocoster.
I love the way you put this episode together and delivered it.
You addressed a serious issue in an entertaining and informative manner.
AI is a powerful tool.
And for a select group of people, the challenges like ADHD and or generic prosperity, prop,
bends, progenetic, genetic propensity.
Thank you.
And the whole dyslexia just whacked me in the face there.
For dementia, it can be a very dangerous one.
I try to daily exercise my brain to help minimize degradation brought on by some of the above
mentioned issues and complicated by age.
But I also need to be able to leverage powerful tools of AI.
Thank you for a reminder to practice more moderation.
And to think of ourselves more often than not.
And Trollocoster responded here with, thanks, Trey.
I really appreciate your feedback.
Don't even think of touching the topic of degenerative brain issues.
I guess my own brain full of degenerative thoughts block that idea out of my head.
Looking forward to your HPR episode on how to train the brain, not going insane, quoting
Cypressil here, keep on trolling.
No, don't keep on trolling.
There we got it in Staleo, wonderful episode.
Thank you, Trollocoster for the insightful and genuinely funny bittersweet episode.
Whether or not the audience loves or hates AI, you covered MIT research paper objectively
and in a way that made me laugh out loud more than once.
Thanks again.
And Trollocoster responds to that saying, hey, in Staleo, I'm afraid I won't be able to
submit any more podcast to HPR if you want my career to end on a high point.
So much flattery is dangerous.
That's it.
Did you like the episode?
Oh, don't worry, my inner tool is too strong.
Before I know it, I'll be spitting on my next soap buck episode.
I haven't decided who I'll insult in that one.
Oh, dear, dear, dear.
Yeah, this one, this came up in a personal circle during a call, me and some friends had.
We were discussing this multiple times recently.
And you referenced this episode?
No, no, I'm still trying to get those friends to review the site.
They hear the name and everybody becomes a little nervous, but the whole AI discussion,
they enjoy AI and the topic of, you know, brain rot basically came up and yeah, that's
why I need to get the hobby public radio site back live.
So you can redirect them to that with a certain degree of certainty that's going to be there.
And do do three, a doose plus one.
I continue to rather about do do to do up for getting done done.
That's such a child.
Candy can E, turn, zero, seven, cool app, both.
The app seems incredibly cool, but I'm still most likely going to stick with task warrior.
Best of luck with the development though.
What is task warrior?
Where does it come from?
Is it free, liberal, and open source?
When did you start using it?
All of these things will make a great introductory episode agreed 100% task warrior.
We need to know more and we need to know it from what was his name again, Candy can't
eat her.
That's the money.
You pronounce it correctly.
Can you stop in them, Jenna, that's terrible.
And the last was the last show of the month, believe it or not, folks.
I was about to say you didn't talk to her, but you got the next one.
Yeah, I just saved myself there locally and pointed out.
So what else did we have?
We had four comments from previous shows.
So back in June, journal, like you mean it, from some guy on the internet, archer 72 left
to comment, and that comment said, high scotty, while I have not started a paper journal,
I have started the electronic one, backed up by sync thing.
Soon after the show, I do like the idea of a bullet list.
And this is done with diaphragm, diacrafts, diagraphs.
Div Morris could tell you more about that one, and it also prompted me to write more on
actual paper.
Oh, yeah.
I love my caveman style of doing it.
Pin and paper.
Very different.
Well, if you're a real caveman, you would be out there chipping on a chiseling onto
a piece of wall, but none of this modern paper nonsense.
It's terrible.
Back in mind, they put effort in effort.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
So we also had a comment on orthopedic logic.
What is it?
That was episode 4442, and the comment was from Man on Fallon with the heading of thank
you.
And for some reason, I just went and closed in my tab.
Why didn't mean to do that?
I don't know if you had showed up or not said anything.
We've done kids silence.
We've taken care of it.
Yes.
No, I had to.
Actually, I have to admit my inadequacies, right?
So I have to buddy, thank you for the positive feedback, much appreciated.
Since the show, the article has been published with the NVO, the National Professional
Association in the Netherlands, and was the heading of their newsletter.
It was received very well.
All the positive feedback is a real boost.
It makes me want to spring into action to do more.
So thank you once again for your comments, Man on.
Well, was that in the mission of more shows?
Yeah, I just heard.
It's not a chance.
No.
Took me 20 years together to do that one.
So in the 40th anniversary, you should might have another one.
Exactly.
Or, orthopedic or he orthopedic, yeah, I can only say it was a certain amount of beer
myself orthopedic.
But the only reason that I actually knew how to say it was purely because we had to study
pedagogy in school, well, sorry for training to be a school teacher.
It's a topic you have to study here in Scotland.
Yeah, but it's a drove me bananas.
It's a completely different to what she's on about.
So the name is completely wrong.
Actually, it's not actually completely different.
It's just that's a slightly more anglified version pedagogy.
It is a similar thing in what it means.
So we also had a comment from Windigo saying singular and this was a do one episode one
of the do do to be not cover that.
No, that was not.
No, no, I was going to say that was last month.
So a windigo says singular versus plural functions.
I think you touched on the nugget of programming wisdom in this episode.
This should only work with one thing.
If you need to apply the same function to a collection of group, every language has a loop
construct that can help you do that, Smileyface.
I'd even take the step further.
Functions should do one thing and should do one thing to one thing.
Keep it nice and simple.
Yep.
OK.
Windigo, if you don't mind explaining more about that, I need some more detail on it.
I'm drawn a blank on some of it.
I'd appreciate it very much if you can get a show out about that.
And thank you, Scotty, for that obvious pitch that I feel to react to there.
And there was also two comments on HBR 4453, IPV6 for Luddites by Benny and McNally.
And comment five here was by Paul Jay, who says, fantastic show.
Thank you.
I think the explanation of IPV6 was very clear and understandable.
My home network is IPV4, even though I have an IPV6 and ready ISP and a static IPV6 address,
range as I now understand.
I feel like the time has come.
I will be listening to the show again in order to learn enough to get started.
I don't know if it would be practically possible, but we could make a show together
setting everything up on my home network.
What do you think we would have to find a way where you didn't have to do so much to make it happen?
I am not scouting for free consulting.
Thank you for a great episode, Paul.
Cool, thanks Paul.
That would be because Benny was saying he'd love to do more shows.
And this has been possibly one of the most, cause the most enthusiasm I've seen in a long
time on the social media's this episode.
So we had some guy called Dave Moore, Mara, is this his?
Dave Moore, is he new?
Do you see or is that show?
I think he must do that.
So we've got to be honest to show that guy.
I don't know.
Seems a bit strange.
I was a bit surprised to find that my ISP offered IPv6.
Hi, Benny.
This was a great show.
I really alerted me to how complicated I have, sorry, how complacent Dave.
Why are you putting in difficult words into your comments?
And you know what?
He's going to come into this episode with a whole list of like words that he's had to
correct me on over the years.
Anyway, hi, Benny.
This was a great show.
Really alerted me to how complacent I have become with my networking.
I checked my ISP Zen in the UK and they have IPv6 on request.
I need to teach myself more details though.
Of course, if someone were to make a show on the subject in HBR, I'd be very well on
my way.
See there?
See there?
That's a pro at work.
Back to his comment.
I would like to set up VLANs on my network.
So I can isolate gadgets like my EV charger and the monitoring things like octopus energy
send me that apparently needs to be on my phone.
I would also like to isolate any IoT devices that I install.
Currying on.
I also need to know how to allocate fixed IP addresses from a Raspberry Pi, Raspberry Pisces
and so on and so forth.
A long time ago, I used to be in charge of the network where I worked.
But that was when we ran X25.
So my brain needs a lot of updates from Dave.
So that was that, I think, any comments, guys?
No other than, yeah, like I said, the old pro slot work, I did like it, wasn't it?
It was relatively subtle for getting a new show in there.
Where are there?
I'm just going to check GitHub and see if there was anything committed.
So just so you know, Ron and the guys are working massively on an upgrade to the HPR website
and it is looking fantastic.
Excellent.
Always good to hear that.
So we'll be nice to get that update and out shortly, so hopefully by next month.
We look forward to that thing.
So there's been a lot of stuff on the HPR mail list this month and a lot of them revolve
around policy decisions and stuff that may not seem very important to you guys.
But they are important to all such janitors because the janitors don't make the decisions
around HPR.
We implement the policies as we see them and decisions are then made by the mail list.
So first one relates to auditors on HPR read that out now.
I have following a move.
This is from me to the mail list following a move from the new service.
Thanks, Josh.
By the way, during the month, we had a house wondering, I thought there was something
I was missing.
Yeah, we moved our servers from AWS back to a ducker set up that Josh has put together
on his website on his farm.
So Josh works for anonymous.com and they provide all the hosting for us.
So thank you, Josh, for that.
If I haven't said it often enough, I really do need to do that.
Anyway, back to the list.
Following the move to the new servers, I've had to recreate the auditors distribution
list and that reminded me that it's been on my to do list to explain what the auditors
are supposed to do and how they fit in with HPR with the idea that the outcome of this
discussion will go on to the HPR governance page, which currently reads, HPR is a community
driven policy decisions are proposed by and discussed on the mail list, which is open
to anyone to join mail list discussions, approach to the attention of the listening community
on the first Monday of the month in the HPR community news show this one.
This show is open to anybody to participate in and the schedule for it can be found on
the link provided.
Our hosting is provided by Josh Klapp from anonymous.com and he has the last words and everything
related to security, changing team of volunteers called admins or jansers, deal with the day-to-day
operations of HPR, acting as the first point of contact, processing the show's coordinating
policy discussions and moving spam, updating the website, etc.
They are contactable via admin at hackerpublicradio.org, they have no more say over policy than
anybody else, anyone who's shown a long-term dedication to the project and distrusted by
the community can become an admin, okay back to my mail.
So while the policy decisions are proposed and discussed on the mail list, it's up to
the jansers to implement it.
The jansers are expected to seek to policy only and ever give their personal opinion when
representing HPR.
As a communication is only carried out between the jansers and the host, the auditors will
be involved on topics where the jansers ask hosts to edit or remove shows for various
reasons.
For example, copyrighted content, hate speech, violating local laws to mention but a few.
By definition, this will never be seen by the community.
So how can we be sure that the jansers actually do what we ask them to do, or to put another
way who watches the watchers?
That's where the auditors come in.
The role of the auditor is to report back to the mail list that the jansers are faithful
in their communications.
This extends to what is said to the host, for example, that the policy actually exists
and also what is said on the mail list, that the show did actually contain hate speech
as an example.
Just like the jansers, auditors never give their personal opinions when representing HPR.
If that's not clear, please reply with questions.
Current auditors list is Brian and Carl and Dave and whatever.
That list will be kept on the website.
Keeping the number to be in 5 and 10 seems like a good balance to ensure somebody is available
at short notice.
And in reply to that, we have Carl Heyman with this match is my understanding of
the rule, but I'm a little unclear on when auditors should report.
Would this be any time an admin posts to the mail list that they have taken some action
based on policy, or only if somebody on the mail list questions, whether the details
of that action were carried out in good faith, my expectation would be the latter.
Are the auditors ever expected to participate in the conversation between Janser and host?
My expectation would be no.
If the question the auditors are meant to answer is are the janitors executing policy in
good faith?
I think the usual standard is what a reasonable person would say, but that could be construed
as inherently an opinion.
Hello?
Oh, you're okay.
Did you hear what was the last thing you heard, because was I pressing the shift or the
cap lock key?
Nothing.
I read out the reply from Carl Heyman and we didn't hear anything as we're like, okay,
that's from a self-escorty message.
Oh, so I've just been holding down the shift key and not the cap lock key.
Let me reread the entire thing.
What would have been, have you recorded, to record on your end?
No, it wouldn't have, because I wasn't speaking.
Okay.
Anyway, the answer is, so he had the question whether we should detail action carried
out in good faith thing.
So do you respond based on policy or only when the mail list asks if it was carried out
in good faith?
I also would think the latter, but you might also be if the generous ask you to.
And then the next one is, are auditors expected to participate in the conversation, his expectations
as no, I say, I agree communication should only be between the generous and the host.
The normal procedure is that when the generous notice an issue, they will contact the host
explaining that the issue is and linking to the policy.
It is then up to the host and only the host to decide what to do.
If the host disagrees, then they are the generous will bring it to the attention of the mail
list.
The auditors are there to observe.
If they have concerns about how the generous behave, then they should first discuss this
with the generous directly.
If the generous disagree, then the auditors or the generous will bring this attention to
the attention of the mail list.
And then it goes into the question, well, you know, good faith, reasonable person, exec,
etc.
I respond.
In the majority of cases, mail lists will be given all the information, as usually the
information can be shared, so there is no issue.
If that's not possible, then the auditors are there to say, yes, the generous are not
BSing you.
While I would never say this during a live event, if the auditors are involved, then there
is at least a possibility that we're being trolled.
The majority of HBR contributors know very well what the norms are, and are comfortable
going to the mail list directly, asking for clarifications before posting a show.
This is my preference, as it means we're not wasting effort posting and moving chills
around.
However, it also allows me as a host to give my personal opinions without having my hands
tied, remaining impartial in the janitor role.
And to which car responds perfectly clear, thanks.
Good.
So essentially, it's going to come to the mail list, and if it's not coming to the mail
list, the auditors are there to ensure everything is on the open up.
So then we had, I reopened an episode of your podcast, has been removed, and I am asking
if anyone has got contact information for Monster B or any of the other hosts involved
in this series.
It's about to take down notice from this episode from Spotify, HBR492, Monster B and Friends
from TIT Radio, Hostable Monster B, and Link to the episode, and link to archive.org TIT
Radio, and the issue is with Tory F's song of the week, Shine by Cactus.
I had a look at the options for Spotify provided, and there was no option to do anything
about it unless you had a license directly from the author.
I need to know if they got permission to release the song or not.
It's possible that there was a podcast-friendly agreement of music alley at the time, but
all their domains have shut down, and I've been struggling to catch up with them.
So any help tracking these guys down or any host of the show would be appreciated.
And there's a response by Brian Navarate with, I'm wondering, does a show being removed
from Spotify actually affect HBR? Should we care or does respond into them, give them
Spotify and others some sense of control over us?
And I respond with TLDR policy change thing, so how did they, I changed the title to,
how to deal with legacy issues and older shows?
And the policy change that I'm requesting is that we remove if there are shows on the
site which you feel harm HBR, first see if a response, actually this is what I want
to add.
If there are shows on the site which you feel should harm HBR, see the link in the mail
list.
First see if a response episode is sufficient to address the grievance.
If not, then please bring it to the attention of the generous at HBR and we will see if
the concerns are grounded based on the same career criteria as if we posted the show
today.
So in response to Brian, he asked how this affects HBR for a start, 100 and 81 listeners
can no longer hear this episode.
Number two, we can no longer expect to go and notice in our little backwater on the
internet, as the fact that we are on Spotify means us all our shows are being scanned.
And number three, and this is the most important one, we are knowingly in violation of the DMCA
and can also no longer use the safe harbor defense.
So this is not a discussion about should we or should we not remove the infringing copyright
music only the HBR domain holders, stankdog and myself get to say in that.
And I quote, for the record, no one else can voluntarily accept liability.
It falls back to me as site owner, no matter what, and that's from the list.
After consulting with my legal team, surprise surprise, the response was to remove the offending
content.
The show itself follows violates our current policies, never include content.
For example, music in you shows that you knew not a permission to redistribute.
However, the policy came in 10 years ago after 10 years after the show was posted.
So if we are posted it now, the show would be rejected.
So this discussion is about how to deal with legacy issues in older shows.
The issues may be identified by the janitor's noticing during posting or the Q18 hearing
it on the future feed or the general public when they show is posted to the main feed.
This topic came up recently in the discussion and in reply to Steve and I give a link to
that discussion.
I wrote, if there's any shows on the site which you feel harm HBR, firstly, if a response
episode is sufficient to address the grievance, if not, bring that to the attention of the
janitors at HBR and we will see if the concerns are grounded based on the same criteria as
if the show was posted today.
For the record, the normal procedure and link to the list is that when the janitor's notice
on the issue, we will contact the host explaining what the issue is, listing a link to the policy
and then it's up to the host and only the host to decide what to do.
If the host disagrees, then they or the janitors will bring that to the attention of the mailess.
So expect more discussion on what to do with 492 later but for now, is this approach outlined
above acceptable when dealing with complaints?
And car response with this looks good to me.
I also wouldn't be opposed to an addendum to the effect of in the case of time sensitive
issue, the janitor may take whatever temporary actions necessary to protect HBR and their
own liability while communication with the host or mailess is still pending.
To which I reply, hi, car list.
Actually, that's a very good point.
We've been in pretty stressful situations in the past waiting for a decision to come through.
It's also normal to delay posting shows for various technical or policy reasons.
So it's good to have this formalized.
How about a more generalized statement like the janitors may place content and hold while
communication with the host or mailess is ongoing?
And Brian and Ohio says, sounds good, thanks for the explanation and all you do at HBR.
Coolio, and then we had Scotty with the community news.
And I had a quick one in there about temporarily disabling the queue and re-enabling.
So it was an issue which has been resolved.
And policy change changes schedule guideline.
Scheduled guidelines are as follows.
You must have audio ready before you pick a slot.
New host interviews, other time critical shows should be used first slot.
Always feel free, try and fill the first free slots available in the upcoming weeks.
When queue is filling up, leave some free slots for new contributors.
Post-known articles into the first empty week.
If you're uploading a series shows post them every two weeks.
If you have an onerigen show that it's timeless than asked it to the reserve queue.
Okay, I noticed that it's not clear to new hosts what is and isn't allowed.
Since writing these guidelines we've changed the workflow and now using the reserve queue
to fill free slots.
So I would like to simplify the amount of guidelines that we have and make some of them rules.
The first guideline you must have your audio recorded from ready to upload before you
pick a slot has long since been a rule that is not optional without discussing exceptions
with the mail list.
So I would like to remove rule 3 which says always try and fill free slots that are available
in the upcoming two weeks.
The reason is that those slots can be filled with the reserve shows.
This reminds listeners that it is not a given that HBO will always have shows unless people
take the time to contribute.
We have been filling empty slot with reserve shows that have a warning for some time and
it's just proven extremely effective in drawing a new host and keeping the queue in equilibrium.
I would like to change rule 6 from change guidelines 6 to a rule.
So from if we are uploading a series shows post them every two weeks to all hosts must
leave 9 slots between their shows, again exceptions should be made on the mailing list.
That change is required for the following reasons.
First, it is that while most will be interested in giving topic others will not be.
Having too much repetition on a topic or host results in loss of listeners.
The second is that it is essential for managing the unstable equilibrium of the queue and
I go into more topic more logic on that in HBR 4195 hacking HBR hosts and having no open
slots means the host think that the project is healthy and they don't send in the show.
Having too many open slots gives people the feeling that HBR is failing as a project and
they don't send in the show.
And then the third reason is that it could be seen as a syndicated show or building your
own brand.
We have a policy on not syndication shows and another that HBR is a podcast and not
a podcast hosting platform.
The rest of the guidelines will be changed and simplified where possible but we remain
optional.
I will also be putting a lock in place so that new hosts can only post one show.
Our automation works when hosts have been created, hosts have been created in the system.
I deliberately don't automate host creation for security reasons.
A side effect of that is that it will also allow hosts to get some feedback on where they
need to make changes to improve the show or for it to give us time to implement fixes
required as a result of a new edge case.
And Jim Lennar responds to that.
Yurisinab both like to remove three about they always trying to fill three slots.
This is icon car in response to I would like to change six from uploading every two weeks
to you must leave nine slots between shows.
I agree with the motivation but I'm not sure the replacement wording is as clear as intended.
I would have preferred something like if you are uploading a series of shows and sure
there are at least two weeks between your shows and slots.
The word all hosts must leave nice slots between their shows just invites confusions where
new hosts i.e. Y9, what's special about nine etc.
I understand and agree with the three reasons you posted however I have a comment on number
three.
Unfortunately, I have seen this ideal violet several times the past two years.
There is one host who always uploads music and I believe he introduces it as a series.
There is another host who crosses his own podcast episodes from an existing show he has created.
I don't believe these fit with the overall issue our mission and are mildly irritated when
they get published.
Thank you for your continued genitalial work.
And can we do they there are three additional responses in the October one I think it'll
be handy or if we discussed it now rather than in a month.
So if you I'll send you the link in the chat one second and can somebody do Andrew Conway's
one.
I agree with the changes proposed except I suggest a tweak to one of the changes I would
like to change six he's referring to your comment I would like to change six from Andrew
then responds with I can see why you say nine slots but instead I think this is clear
quote must leave at least two weeks between their shows close quote thanks for your
janitor janitoring sir Andrew cool and iris but that was also covered in the other one
I agree that nine slots will be more and for the automation to check so how about something
like if you are multiple shows that makes no sense if you're uploading multiple shows
please then please least two weeks between the chosen slot what was I think if you are
uploading multiple shows then please leave at least two weeks between your chosen slots
and then I comment on Jim's question about the third is it could have been a syndicated
show building your own brand that you saw the ideal violated several times in the past
I say the policy is difficult won't put in words is about HPR is a podcast not a podcasting
hosting platform it's the difference between doing something for the benefit of HPR and
doing something for yourself and then he asks about cross posting podcast episodes from
some other show to HPR and I reply cross posting is not allowed unless they are posted
on HPR first please contact the janitors directly on this episode on which episode this is please
and I'll investigate and then he was there's one host that uploads music includes it as a series
doesn't fit in with the overall mission and I respond if there's a question about music being
copyrighted then we can contact the janitors but I think you're expressing a preference here
rather than a HPR policy the tradition as in tribe music I've released a music public in to
the openly in the public domain is compatible with our free software licensing the shows are
teaching and passing off skills to other listeners so it takes us the box of dedicated to sharing
knowledge and hackers belong history of making instruments circular branding and a new of
jazz rose creations for example and finally HPR has a long history of posting music so music copyright
music creation music identification music player demons music streaming music theory music itself
musical instruments music brains music production muse open and so I finish with there is no
requirement for you to like the shows that's why you have the deliki in your keyboard but I'd argue
that those shows do indeed fulfill the overall HPR mission and Brian and Ohio says good idea
for changes I think nine slots between shows is cleared unless prone to misunderstanding
I'm probably going to implement that in cold anyways so that when you do the when you request a
slot and you send an email a little basically reject it and give you a link to another date
I'm so is the confusion not in that it is nine shows but how you came about the number nine is
that where I'm understanding their confusion is in yeah I don't I agree with them that I don't
think if we say you know I'll post a show every two weeks then a human will go okay well I'll
post my last show on Wednesday then I'll skip next Wednesday I'll post it on the Wednesday
but a computer will go no you're not you're not allowed to do that because the Wednesday after
isn't it isn't ten slots yeah it is in two weeks so nine slots so we have like five five slots a
week so nine slots later you skip over plus one is the tenths show so that's when you can post
a potential ten slots later yeah that that part made sense to me so I was trying to figure out
why wouldn't make sense to others but then I you know I figured I'm missing something here yeah a lot
of people said people coming on wouldn't know what a slot is okay and then do the count okay well
I'll post my shows so is a slot other nine for you know empty vacancies in there so are they are
they could be construed to be slots so say all the next two weeks are full so then you post a show
and then you have to jump over another two weeks that are full and then you post a show and you
count nine so every two weeks is clear for everybody but in cold I'll make it nine slots somebody do
Jim's response and we can wrap this one up all right Jim so he responded to the I agree that nine
slots will be more or preferred and he gives a quote here if you are uploading multiple shows please
leave at least two weeks between your chosen slots yes quote that makes sense that's the one we use
yeah and referring to the the traditional uh of releasing music openly statement he uh says that
if there are instrumental I would agree and encourage more of the same but there are some shows
that are simply uh presentations of music without any instrumental learning uh hackers have a long
history of making instruments he's that's the next thing that he's um uh going to be addressing
by saying I agree and have one problem with these my only concern was presenting uh presenting
music for music sake with no intent of instrumental content with with hold on I feel like I'm
uh misunderstood instrumental content or presentation of instructional I think that's where you're
treating it yeah okay yeah my apologies there instructional content uh or uh presentation of
the novel ideas or origin research I suppose the series hold on I have to release control to
scroll down uh all songs considered best illustrates this as I have found one of them to be
hear my favorite songs and that's it then he's addressing there's no requirement for you to like
the shows with if music only or performance only pieces are permitted then there is no policy
violation here I will refrain from commenting on these further yeah um so they are permitted I prefer
the ones that are instructional and we get into issues anytime a music show comes in I now have to be
very careful because you have no idea where the copyright comes from so it and it's not just
copyright on the song it's copyright on the arrangement it's the copyright on blast so it gets
really complex so um yeah I uh technically I like the shows but technically I uh I don't like
cause it's more work for me I hear you have a opinion on copyright yeah I have an opinion that I
don't want to be in court you're so boring yeah exactly thank been there done that you just want
to see fly that's that's terrible it that is pretty much it okay guys I think we've covered
everything thanks to Josh for all the help that he gave me this month moving the stuff over I
it was just taken so long and then like all right Josh just goes I'll do it moved everything got
everything working like we had literally two minutes of downtime and then of course I had to go
and fix all my broken scripts because they're all pointing in the wrong place but uh
that actually encouraged me to get a little bit more automation and a little bit more tidying up
done a few more tickets done uh so that was uh I was good work all around and he stood it all up
in Docker you say very nice yeah you could do a few shows about how he set that up don't you think
oh yeah I'd be interested in that I'm pretty sure other hackers would also find interest in it
absolutely yes of great interest okay folks I smell pancakes wafting down here so without
further ado tune in tomorrow for a little exciting episode of hacker pub public radio you have
been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work today's show was
contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click
on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for hbr has been kindly provided
by an onsthost.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on this otherwise status today's show
is released on our creative commons attribution 4.0 international license
