Episode: 4463
Title: HPR4463: Software Freedom Day NJ, briefly.  
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4463/hpr4463.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:56:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4463 for Wednesday the 10th of September 2025.
Today's show is entitled Software Freedom Day and J. Briefly.
It is hosted by Murph and is about two minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summer is.
A quick summary of what we're doing for Software Freedom Day.
Software Freedom Day.
This is a worldwide series of events to celebrate free software and we're having one right here in New Jersey at Montclair State University.
It's held on the third Saturday of September worldwide, which this year is the 20th of September.
We're going to talk about what free software is, why it's important for everyone, what kind of software is available for your existing computer or how you can extend the life of your computer by loading another operating system on it.
We're going to have a talk on self-hosting so that you can keep better control of your data.
There will be a talk on social networking with free software called Mazda on the Fediverse.
There will also be talks on Wikipedia and contributing to free software.
There's a huge variety of software out there and we'd like to take some time to tell people about it.
It's a community event and we'd love to see people from all over come out.
Here are some links for more information.
SoftwareFreedom.neocities.org is our site for this event.
I'm also going to put a link to the Foundation site in the show notes.
So either come out to our event, find an event near you, look online to see what events are streaming, or start planning for an event of your own in your area next year.
Hope to see you in New Jersey coming up soon.
And I have to apologize to the HPR community.
I've gone on for such a long time.
This is a much longer show than I usually put on.
So I apologize for my wordiness this time.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
It doesn't work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
