Episode: 4494
Title: HPR4494: Exploring FUTO Keyboard
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4494/hpr4494.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:02:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4494 for Thursday the 23rd of October 2025.
Today's show is entitled Exploring Futo Keyboard.
It is part of the series' app Spelling King.
It is hosted by Antoin and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
As the summary is, I install Futo from zero and explain why I prefer him.
Hello, you are at Hacker Public Radio today with Antoin and Futo Keyboard.
I have just formatted my telephone, reinituated it to the defaults,
because my Samsung Galaxy have updated to Android 16,
and sometimes I like to format after an upgrade of the system.
To restart again.
I have just reinstalled, installed from zero, the Futo Keyboard.
I will go through its minimal configurations because it's the keyboard I use.
Why I like it?
Let me explain it first before opening,
but you can already install it at your phone if you like why I speak.
I like Google Keyboard because I think it's beautiful and it has a very good prediction.
And I prefer long time ago, maybe more than a year,
that I do not use the keyboard.
I prefer a keyboard that is more private without access to the internet,
but that has the same functionalities.
And I have found the Futo because it has no internet access,
and it has voice recognition, it has swipe to text, swipe to type,
and a good prediction.
And I think it's beautiful too.
One point I'd like also is that I can configure some minimal things
like what are the symbols that I want to be in each character,
if I want the A to have an ampersand or whatever,
and you don't have that minimal configuration,
but you can have a little of it.
And also if you want the number, row, at the top or not, etc.
I like this kind of configuration, like the time I press the key
for the nanomillie seconds to have access to the other characters.
You can configure that milliseconds that you don't have in many keyboards.
So, opening the Futo.
First pass, first thing is go to options of typing.
Then now I have to come to enable Futo keyboard.
That's not enabled.
We turned.
Step 2, at the app it says, select Futo to type.
So I select Futo.
All right, now I'm at the menu.
We have the options like languages, keyboard, typing, prediction.
Let's go a bit of each one.
Languages.
You can ignore the verify if there are updates manually
because it is by play store.
But it has the option there, I don't know why.
Languages, here it is in French for me because I have the telephone in French right now.
But I can, let's say, add a language at the top.
My language, Portuguese, then Portuguese, Brazil.
Add the QWERTY type of keyboard.
You can select many configurations.
I recommend you to test the Azerty configuration.
I like the position of DA.
My fingers don't tumble so much at that configuration as I try a data bit.
But for now, I will have the QWERTY because I'm more...
Maybe trade it more, use it too.
So there it is.
I have added a language and I can also remove one.
I remove the French.
I remove it in the bin icon.
Okay, remove it.
Now I have the part you use, okay?
That's it.
You can get your language.
But it's not all.
Going under, you can see explore dictionaries.
You can go to the adoption.
And I don't have the browser.
But I think that's the option to go to a website.
To download the language, the dictionary for the language.
All right.
So if you want correction, et cetera, you have to download.
It's very easy to download the dictionary for the language and import at the program.
After the download, you can exclude the downloaded item because it will already be at the end.
Okay.
Returning keyboard and typing, here are the main things you can have a bit of tiny adjustments you'd like for your better use of a keyboard.
Like resize.
If you want the option to have the number row at the top.
I use it, I prefer it.
If you want the arrows to be under the keyboard, I don't need it.
I don't like it.
It's an option, but I didn't need it.
Ah, how you want to have the touch in the space bar.
You can go there.
Oops.
I want to touch the icons.
That's what I talked at the beginning.
You have active by default, like the characters of the language, to be the first, like the end with a tiled, I think it's tiled.
If you belong present, or you can have the option to put the numbers as the default for a long press of the character in which there is.
The secondary type for numberings, symbols, fast actions.
I like that option, that is at number four.
I don't mind the order because I normally long press and see what I'm doing, so you can don't matter the order for me.
But you can exclude what you don't want, but that action, fast actions, I want to talk to you about.
Like I open a notebook here with the foot already here.
And let's say, I wrote something, and I can award, then I long press the word.
Normally, what you have is a pop-up to copy or to cut or to paste.
And with the foot or keyboard, you don't have to select the word and long type at the screen to see the options.
The C of the keyboard, long press C, there's the option with two windows, that is to copy.
So if you have a text selected and go to C, long press there, then copy it.
And the space, you want to paste, I think.
You don't have to go to the little tiny point of the screen that you want to paste because you have the V, long press the V.
And there is the option to paste.
That's the main feature that I don't see everywhere.
That's it, but you also have like typing something.
And you want to cut.
Cut is the same thing you have that contracts on windows, that is copy or while deleting that thing.
So to do that, you long press the X, there is this Caesar to cut.
Now the word or the paragraph, the text you selected and cut it and have cut.
Now you can paste with the long press on V and copy and paste it.
That's it.
While you're doing that, you may already have the option of the correction at the top, the correction bar.
Oh, without the internet, only with the dictionaries.
You have returned into the options of the keyboard, you have other configurations.
Now that is for languages.
If you want to have the bar of actions or suggestions at the top, you can do on and off.
You can have the passwords to appear on the suggestion bar.
You can simply search automatic on lean.
That is auto-few, auto-few or something like that.
Preferences of typing.
If you want to swipe to type, it's not very good, but it works.
So you can have it.
If you want suggestions of emojis, I don't like that, I will disable.
Correction auto, I don't want auto-correction, I want to type.
And if I want, I type on the suggestion, if I am doing wrong.
If you want the first word to be my school, the long, height letter, what is my English?
I can enable or disable for the first word to be with big letters.
And I'm pointing space, if you want to do a double space, to do a space and a point automatically spacing a dot.
I don't like it too, disable.
Sometimes I want to more spaces and not replacing by dot automatically.
Another option, delete, pasted, text and backspace.
And this is in English that's not translated to French.
So you can disable or enable the delete, pasted, inserted text while backspace.
Delete what I have already, what I have just pasted.
And do auto-correct and backspace?
Wow, I don't have auto-correct, so the adoption disabled or enabled.
Like it is now, it's not relevant, but let's disable.
Agrandue, like when you press the word, the letter, you want it to appear big, I don't like it.
I don't like to type when not see the words floating, the letters floating.
So, disabling.
Vibration, no vibration.
Some sound, no sound.
Okay.
That's what I like it.
Text prediction, you can do it like it is.
That is the transformer LM language model.
You can have it enabled like it is, but not the final adjustment because it says it consumes a lot of battery.
I never use it, so I won't tell you to do that.
Personal dictionary, there is the option.
You can add your words, it does not automatically add anything, but if you want.
I always use that word, I want the keyboard to know to suggest, for example,
so you can go there dictionary, personal dictionary, and put your word as a language specific
or for all languages, no, no.
Blacklist, it is already owned by default to block shocking terms.
And there is not the list, it is automatically, and you can add one list if you want.
Suggestion, for correction, enabled by default.
Automatically detects frap, happy.
I don't remember what there is, and personalized suggestions.
I disable it, I don't like making keyboards to learn so much.
Because then it gets very good, and then I find myself writing what the keyboard says.
I want to write, but I don't want the personalized suggestion.
So I disable that.
There is the action, enable action key.
I don't know, yes, you can have an action key, I don't remember what it does.
Theme, I like the dynamic auto, that is, nights or day mode only, but you have other little things.
And last option, a part of the help that I want to do, nothing, it's the payment.
I have a redbot, it is 100% free for practical use, but it encourages you to pay.
As I like, I pay it, and do not download again the payment app.
I can just click here on, I have already paid, didn't I know?
I have already paid.
All right, now the payment option has gone away.
Miss Elena, okay, that was it.
That is what I like on Futo keyboards, some features, it's beautifulness or better.
It's beauty, and my sharing with you at Hacker Public Radio.
I am, or I was, and one here with you.
Goodbye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
