Episode: 4435
Title: HPR4435: Philosophy, Cosmology, Physics, and just what is up with Hairy Larry's brain.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4435/hpr4435.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:40:41

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,435 for Friday the 1st of August 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Philosophy, Cosmology, Physics and just what is up with Harry
Larry's brain.
It is part of the series All Songs Considered.
It is hosted by Harry Larry and is about 9 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is.
The manual cat was an influential philosopher back in the 18th he inspired this song.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Thanks Marty.
Today I am going to improvise jazz piano on a song inspired by Immanuel Kant.
Now Immanuel Kant was an influential philosopher back in the 18th century and he remains influential
today.
Kant created a dichotomy between phenomena and numina where phenomena applies to things
we can perceive with the senses and numina are things that cannot be perceived.
To our wrote this song called Numenology about the study of things that cannot be perceived.
At first I thought this would be an ideal academic tenure.
I mean, who could prove you wrong?
But further thought led me to many scientists who deal with numina on a daily basis.
Take cosmology for instance, the study of the origins of the universe.
Cosmologists have come up with the idea of the big bang, something that happened about
14 billion years ago.
To check how fast the universe is expanding, to come up with a number like that.
And they keep building bigger and bigger telescopes because the further away something is,
the longer it took for it's light to get to us, which means we're really looking back
into the past when we look at distant galaxies.
Well, the big bang is numeral.
I mean, nobody is going to actually perceive it.
So you could say that some cosmologists are, in fact, Numenologists.
Never take particle physics.
String theory, where we look at the stuff that makes protons and electrons, started as
a mathematical exercise without proof in the real world, definitely numerologically inclined.
But those particle physicists kept building bigger and bigger psychotrons, banging atoms
together to see what escaped.
And they started detecting the mathematically predicted subparticles.
I read last week that they discovered a particle that has mass going in one direction,
no mass going in the other.
Now how does that work?
Moving on from philosophy, cosmology, and physics, to Numenah that actually affect ordinary
people.
Songwriters have written more songs about it than any other subject.
Stories about it finance the publishing industry, allowing them to publish books on philosophy
and cosmology.
And Jesus preached about it as his core message.
Of course, I'm talking about love.
Helping everyone experiences that has no phenomenal existence.
You can't see it, you can't touch it.
What is love remains a valid philosophical question.
So there we are, back to Kant.
On the song Numenology, I scant sing with the bebop and a duop replacing actual words.
So I got to thinking this morning, maybe I should write a lyric, maybe about a cosmologist
and a physicist who fall in love, or even better, a cosmologist and a physicist who
bond over their shared love for Numenology.
Which brings us to the big question.
Just what is up with Harry Larry's brain and how does he come up with this stuff?
I'm going to reveal my secret.
Sometimes it's dreams.
And sometimes in the morning, when I'm not ready to get out of bed, you know what I mean?
You've been there.
My mind just goes tick, tick, tick.
And the next thing you know, I've written another podcast.
So now, from my Harry Larry livestreams album, here I am scat singing to Numenology.
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on.
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't
know, I don't know,
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I
don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don
I don't know, Is in here, no, I don't know, is in here, yeah, okay, I don't know, no, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know that, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
at 10. For more piano improvisation from my Harry Larry livestreams album, plus Sunra,
David Delacross, Leret Nour, and Dave Groeson.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our syncs.net. On the Saldois stages, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
