Episode: 4412
Title: HPR4412: Parkinson Tribly's Story: The Prisoner of Unit 731
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4412/hpr4412.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:24:10

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,412 for Tuesday 1 July 2025.
Today's show is entitled Parkinson Tribles Story, the prisoner of Unit 731.
It is hosted by Semla's M. St. Louis and is about 20 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, first three minutes, trailer, followed by the full show, an original audio
drama.
I'm so thankful that we have Hacker Public Radio.
Thanks all you are responsible for it.
World War II was a war that no one expected to happen.
But who expects a war anyway?
Man has lived in war.
It is envy.
It is a desire for power.
It is a desire for money.
It's never a good motivation.
One of the first conflicts that marked this moment in history was the Second Sino-Japanese
War.
That is the war between Japan and China.
When the Japanese invaded this region, Manchuria, in the long war against China, we did
not expect the brutality that we and the world witnessed.
I did not expect it to come in my lifetime nor to be captured, to participate in it firsthand.
But he is living through it.
What is he referring to?
Well, one of the most horrendous buildings occupied by the Japanese in China was called
Yonet Hiro Ishii, named after its leader, a doctor and lieutenant general.
Another name given to it was Unit 731.
These units conducted, but the days are filled with activities, experiments on logs, degrading
biological deaths on human subjects.
We don't want to say that there was any scientific purpose.
We have no connection with the progress of science for water purification, but this was
a suitable disguise to ideologically hide the construction that was already physically
well hidden and isolated.
If there had been any survivors, what would they tell?
We've done it.
We created Parkinson triply a single episode, coming now, the account of the prisoner who
survived, or have he.
Now that you've got the trailer, I hope you have a good show.
Thanks in advance for listening.
The epidemic prevention and water supply department, or the prisoner of Unit 731.
This account was found in the records of Parkinson triply, of Russian polish origin.
He was recruited by doctor Shiro Ishii for helping in experiments at Unit 731.
But a legitimate opportunity to stay alive, which ultimately proved false, for reasons
he did not expect.
What we will hear now is his writing, unadded, except that, for organization, we will name
the three parts that he composed as follows.
One in production, two activities, and three in the bargain.
The author goes back, reflects, and then advances again in his organization.
But what he brings, ultimately, is one in production.
Thank God we know that from the beginning, man has lived in war.
It is envy, it is a desire for power, it is a desire for money, it's never a good motivation,
but purely selfishness.
I arrived at the department a week ago, and although I have no desire to collaborate
with what happens here, I know enough to realize that it is impossible to leave this place
free.
In the Japanese invaded this region, Manchuria, in the long war against China, we did not
expect the brutality that we, and the world, witnessed it.
A few years ago, after the end of the Great War, several countries signed the Geneva Protocol.
Although it only prohibits the use of chemical weapons, biological and affixiating agents,
etc., we believed.
This agreement on prohibitions would mean more, that it would signify a general humanization
of combat methods on land, sea, and air, when there might be another Great War.
I did not expect it to come, in my lifetime, nor to be captured, to participate in it firsthand.
Two achievements.
As I said, it has only been a week since I started sleeping here, but the days are filled
with activities, experiments on logs.
After they was the worst day, because, despite being one of the most popular torture among
scientists, and much discussed, I dreaded every second of having to see this someday.
I saw.
One of the operation commanders in my section, placed me alongside a lieutenant responsible
force calling.
First, two prisoners, the logs, were immobilized, tired tubars in the cold outside without protection.
Others did this, I simply watched.
They were far enough apart that they could neither talk nor see each other.
We then accelerated the freezing process in some parts of their bodies.
On the adult log, we poured water on his hands, using a bucket.
After they petrified, we moved to his arms.
The child log was Chinese, possibly a son of fighters from what I understood.
He was intermittently submerged from the waist down.
After what must have been an hour, we took them inside, still separated, to finalize observations
meticulously noted by the officer's aids for the scientific purposes.
We immersed the frozen or partially frozen limbs in tanks of water at 40 degrees Celsius
for varying times that I didn't check to assess how the body would respond in reviving
the parts we had numbed.
Blood began to circulate again in the small log, the fantastic recovery of youth, but mobility,
effects and pain seemed irreparable, no-noteless.
The adult log was left without any success, for future notes on conditions and how long
it would take until necrosis sat in on his limbs.
I thought I would suffer more from this sight, the first time I had been so directly part
of a view.
I believe the picket logs mark experience it, who knew that screaming or begging, you'd
be futile.
Thus they suffered my action in a parent peace, which spared me greater trauma.
1.
Another part of introduction.
I could list more of what is done here, but it's all being very well recorded by those
who have lived and breathed this air for much longer and with far greater competence.
Therefore, eventual reader to whom this pages may someday reach, I will move on to my final
words about what I can understand from what I have been given to live.
May my friends and family know that I love them and that I never wished to do them
harm.
And the content of all this here, as I say, is officially recorded in the official papers
for everyone's full knowledge.
When someday they come to be opened or discovered, thus I limit myself in my words.
When Japan captured me like another per civilian, I imagined a quicker end for me.
When they made me understand that they would take me to the water distribution and the
epidemic prevention center with the famous doctor and military Shiro Ishii, I thought of myself
as a future-forced laborer, chosen because of my career in health inspection in China.
None of this proved true.
I was selected by chance, an attractive victim who, upon living home without looking around,
was an easy prey for this murderers.
They had no idea who I was and still have no interest in knowing.
They are satisfied to have a foreign guinea pig of non-Chinese ethnicity to add a different
color to this prison.
One nation, that is what they provoke, that is what they deserve.
Knowing that from the beginning there have been wars and war among brothers gratuitous
that, and cries of pain, is somewhat comforting.
When we know there, we know there is an omniscient being who speaks the truth and not
only prepares us for everything that is to come, but personally cares for each one of us.
It is true, missionaries spoke to me about him, blessed be they, who have long been
away from this region.
Today is the eighth day, and they do not want to leave knowing that I might get used
to this way of life.
We have no connection with the progress of science for water purification, something general
wishy, truly developed, I give him credit for that.
These lectures at the unit refer to the method as a mission given by God, but also, and
mainly, talk about the main reason for some tests on logs, to create biological weapons
using plague, intracts and others, to weaken and annihilate tens of thousands of emits.
According to him, we are being successful, both in research and in development, and effective
deployment of weapons in combat and bombings.
I insist on thinking it's political rhetoric and that there hasn't been enough time yet
to create something so effective as to start near epidemics through the air.
Still his semblance, his face, transmits pure madness, being alone within a room shall
be worse than death.
Those inoculated with pathogenic agents and open while still alive for scientists to
examine the disease's action on their organs, would confirm my impression.
3.
The Bargain
When I arrived at this place that resembles a prison more than anything else, I thought
it would be my end, dying incarcerated.
I have never been a man of much hope, which is why I was incredibly surprised by the
absurd story told by the missionaries.
It would have been easier to be imprisoned than to be a killer.
I am a killer, part of all days, and I no longer want to be.
They will not let me leave, not now.
There's nowhere to go, we are isolated.
However, I will live tomorrow.
If I can disguise myself, my body, as a dead body, naked among the discarded dead logs.
Until my friend's truck arrives, he can take me close to the disposal valley from where
a few more kilometers walking, and this is no, we will lead me to a border, still free.
Otherwise, if before that I am unmasked, I will meet a swift end, in which God willing,
I will no longer hurt anyone.
In exchange for our conversation, I taught my friend about my pages, and he became very
interested in what they might contain.
Yes, these pages, after all, personal sayings, are like gold, when only atrocities are
spoken of, and when we only live true death.
It was a bargain, he gives me freedom, and they give him these pages.
I will tell where I hid them when you let me go near the disposal valley, then they
are yours.
I hope they are valuable for your mind, my victorious friends.
May angels watch over you and protect you.
I may remain lost, along the way, weak, and stay behind.
If I do not find freedom, make sure all my friends know that I love them, and never
wished them harm.
Only good.
The information contained in this account is true, with key references listed in the description.
The character, Parkinson Tribly, is fictional, with no reflection on a reality, his speech
and persona were created as an entry ticket into this true story.
The department where we place it, Parkinson is Unit 731, which was officially designated
as the epidemic prevention and water distribution department of the Quantong Army.
At least 3,000 victims of experiments, died at Unit 731, without any survivors, from
mid-1937 until the end of the World War II on September 2, 1945.
It suggests 200,000 to 300,000 deaths, as a result of biological weapons developed
at Unit 731 and elsewhere.
A final paragraph by Tribly was found written differently on the margins of the field pages.
It isn't clear where it should fit into the report, but it's presented here simply
as it is.
Quantong Army
Therefore, my appeal or rather without being dramatic, my humble observation to my reader
that I wish to share from my heart with you who wait.
Know that what is seen can never be unseen, what passes through our senses for just one
second and enters our mind will remain there forever.
Please make the best use of this information.
And here is the end, thanks for coming until here.
If you are here for the first time here in HPR, I encourage you to contribute to.
Record an audio talking about you, your experience with technology, or a subject you like and
would like other people to also know something about.
And submit a pollute your show.
Bye bye, from a friend of yours.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
