Episode: 4029
Title: HPR4029: The product.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4029/hpr4029.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:50:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4129 for Thursday 11 January 2024.
Today's show is entitled The Product.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 12 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Good Heavens, its secret hat time with Scoti.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
Today let's talk about the product.
What is the product?
Most of us we may associate the product with whatever it is that we want.
I want to listen to a podcast.
Let's head on over to HPR.
HPR, Hacker Public Radio, is a service that provides the product, the podcast.
HPR has a few ways of delivering the product.
And we, the consumer, we have many ways of consuming the product.
Well, I should say there's only one way to consume our podcast, however we have many
technologies that allow us to consume the product.
And for the most part, it's very simple, very easy.
You show up, you sign up, you receive, you consume.
And with this type of product, you can consume it over and over again, right?
There are more shows to come.
And you can listen to previous shows.
So there's lots of product, lots of value in the product.
Now I can hear it already, G Scotty, thanks for telling us how podcast work.
We greatly appreciate that.
Well, of course, I had to add that lighthearted bit of information in just in case you didn't
fully clear the room.
Now that you're alone and whoever was listening in on the conversation has finally left because
they're bored to death by that bit of information, we can begin the real show.
Because the reality is you are the product.
I know, I know, but you've spent money.
You've worked hard, you've earned, and now you've taken what you've earned.
You've budgeted it appropriately, made sure you had a certain amount of disposable income
and used that disposable income to purchase what you believe to be a product.
When in reality, you didn't actually purchase a product, you've merely paid the entrance
fee to becoming the product.
In many situations when you make a purchase, the service provider has an obligation called
know your customer.
And in some cases, they may not have the obligation, but they still want the details on who you
are.
So one of the requirements in receiving access to the service or what you believe to be
the product, you have to provide information about yourself.
And we're not talking about just cellular service because we all know you're the product
there.
Anything on the cell phone is designed to data mine you all day every day.
You've basically accepted a GPS chip that goes everywhere with you, reports constantly
on your location, and who you're with.
I just remind you of two quick things, by the way, remembered when COVID was very big
in the news, and they wanted everyone to feel, quote, safe, close quote.
After they asked that you use technology on your device that would alert you in case
you were in close proximity to another individual that reported to have had COVID within the
last 14 days, well, how do you think that's done?
And do you actually think any of that turned off?
Do you think it went away?
And I'm not even going to get into all of the tile devices.
You know the ones I'm talking about that have been used to stock individuals that reveal
that your device, especially if you have an Apple device, constantly pings other devices
without you knowing about it.
It doesn't alert you to any of this.
They've only decided to inform you that the device is actually pinging other devices.
Once it was discovered that people were using these tile devices, these tags to spy mostly
on women, but, I mean, they spy on anyone that they can't, they put them on two cars
and in other packages and things and send them out so that way they can track you wherever
you go.
The companies have already been doing this for years.
It's just that a few shady individuals that you really don't want to meet have decided
to use this technology for their own means, rather it's to find out where you live, where
you work, where you go, and when you leave home, whatever.
And keep in mind, even if you do not want this feature, you are unable to opt out so
long as you have the device.
Opting out means no longer having the device, and it's even becoming more difficult than
that these days.
If you're around someone else who has the device, I mean, pretty soon it's gonna be difficult
to opt out at all.
So long as someone else has one, you're opted in.
I mean, that's true with things like the Ring Doorbell.
There are sites out there that allow average citizens to view whatever your Ring Doorbell
has access to.
Now, I'm not gonna speak to the legitimate sea of these sites, but you can go out and
see other people's Ring Doorbell like what the doorbell is focused on.
We know that Ring works with law enforcement, however they don't secure these devices.
So imagine you don't have a Ring Doorbell.
You leave your home every day at a set time to go fulfill your obligations, and some
scumbag is just watching you from somewhere else learning your patterns because of someone
else's Ring Doorbell.
It's not pleasant, and it's also not optional.
You don't get to say you and your family, your children, your loved ones.
Have the pleasure of being watched by any and everyone on the internet.
Day in, day out, and there's no one to petition about this.
Well, sure, you can go and speak to your neighbor about it.
I'm sure that'll go well.
Maybe you can write a letter to your local politician, find out how far that gets you,
and it doesn't stop there.
Have you ever bought a car?
Have you ever bought a house?
No matter what you do, when you put your information into a record, into a database, it is managed
for the purpose of making you the product.
I want you to think about that car, all these different things that you want that you
need.
They've all been turned against you.
They all like a lore now, bait that has been smeared onto a trap, and it's done this
way because it's more convenient for you.
You see, you are used to a certain way of life, and they understand that.
So they've taken all that is familiar and turned it against you.
Now whenever you think that you're making a purchase for that car, for that house,
for that anything, your information gets hoovered up and sold to the hot, not even the
highest bidder.
It just gets sold.
And in many cases, they don't even separate the data, like store the more sensitive data
away, like social security numbers and things of that nature, that's hard to change.
You know what I mean?
If it gets leaked out there, you're really screwed.
Yeah, they don't even bother.
In some cases, all of it gets packaged together in the same database, and whoopsie, we forgot
to secure it.
It was just wide open on the internet, and we just found out the other day half the world
had access to it.
Whoops.
Oh, and by the way, when we informed you that your data was exposed to the entire world,
we'll decide to do that about nine months from the time that we discovered.
Yeah, no rush.
You may be thinking, I don't own a house.
Maybe I don't even own a car, I take public transportation, or I ride my bike, or whatever,
you know, I don't have a car, though, or a house, so they don't have mine, at least not
as much of my data, well, I just want to stop you.
Just hold it right there just a moment.
How did you come by that bicycle?
How did you come by any of the things that you own?
Do you have a little piece of plastic that has numbers, sort of a pressed into it, and
a magnetic strip, or maybe a little chip on it, you know, and you use it as a way of authenticating
during a purchase, creating a transaction, which has an ID, which gets stored, is that
how you can buy any of the things you own?
Remember, you are the product.
All those other things that are there?
Just bait.
Think about all the food you purchase.
Then think about all the people just in your area, like your state that are starving.
And then think about all the food that we throw away.
You make a purchase.
Those who cannot make the purchase.
The bait and the fact that we just chuck it in a garbage.
Even if it's not bad, we have a sell-by date.
That does not explain the reason why it's there, right?
It's not an expiration date as in it's going to be bad if you consume it.
No, no, no, no.
We want the bait to be optimal for the product.
It must look a certain way.
And think about it.
A lot of that food that's still perfectly good, that can actually feed the homeless, the starving.
Forget about them.
Throw this in the trash, burn it, destroy it.
But nobody's going to get access to this bait without us getting access to them.
And I know some of you might be thinking.
Yes, yes, but there are lawyers and lawsuits and things.
If someone eats the food and gets sick, that's why they can't donate it.
They have to destroy it because blah, blah, blah, blah.
There may be some truth to that line of argument that they have to throw away because of legal reasons.
So let me also remind you that these same legal reasons did not stop us from taking experimental
medicine.
Medicine that could not have been approved by our improvement agencies, you know, food
drug administration or whatever and making it available to everyone, the entire country.
Not just the less fortunate who could not afford it.
No, no, no, every single person in the country, even if you're just visiting.
We made it available, even though it was not approved.
And we made it to where you could not sue anyone for it.
And when we did that, we also stood by and watched as employers, some not all, demanded
that their employees take that experimental drug that was not approved.
Oh, yeah, we demanded that we even talk about everyone carrying their cards, proof that
you took the experimental drug.
Remember that?
Yeah, so before you go telling us about laws, just remember, we have plenty of solutions
when we want them, when we want them.
You've been gone for a while and people are going to start to notice you've been missing.
So take your hat off, put it away and return before anyone notice you were gone for too
long.
Mentally, you may feel that a sensation that's equivocal to leaving a dark room into a brightly
lit area, how your eyes have to readjust and it's everything's just sort of overexposed
for a moment.
And then it slowly starts to adjust to where you can see properly.
This feeling is natural.
It happens when you've been informed, but keep quiet about it.
You don't want to alert the normies they might have you brought in.
So tuck that hat away somewhere safe and destroy this episode, don't let anyone find
it.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and
rsync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
