Episode: 4505
Title: HPR4505: New site - looks great!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4505/hpr4505.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:09:44

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4505 for Friday 7 November 2025.
Today's show is entitled New Site Looks Great.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 3 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 helps someone blinded by the light of the new HBR site.
Hello, this is Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
This episode was prompted by the new site going live yesterday, the 20th of October, 2025.
There was a mailing list entry that was saying that they were blinded by the light of the
new site, which the new site looks great.
There was a lot of work going into it, and Ron and others put a lot of work into getting
everything live again.
I kind of put that on hold for a little bit after I saw it. I woke up about one in the morning,
and I was kind of prompted to look at the dark reader again, which the person that wrote
in uses, and that was what was going on is the dark reader wasn't making the website
like it should be.
So, I looked at the settings a little bit, and I found one of the settings, something
called Filter Plus, and turned that on, and that made it turned almost too dark.
It looked like it was a jet black, and then I tweaked the settings for the contrast a
little bit, probably about down to about 30% contrast, and that seemed to do pretty good.
So, I exported, I went on the desktop later, and exported those settings, and then a couple
of screenshots of what I saw, and to anybody that is using that type of reader, plug
into Firefox, I think it's also in Chrome, they can import those settings that I'll put
on in the show notes, and hopefully that'll help somebody.
I'm sorry, the social art, but it's been Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
a podcast, and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
The HBR has been kindly provided by www.monsthost.com, the Internet Archive, and our
things.net.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
