Episode: 4275
Title: HPR4275: What is on My Podcast Player 2024, Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4275/hpr4275.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:22:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,275 for Friday the 20th of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled, What is On My Podcast Player 2024 Part 3.
It is part of the series podcast recommendations.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, this is an update on the podcasts Ahukah listens to.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
And this is going into the Reserve Q.
So if you're hearing this, that means that HPR is short of shows and you should do a show.
It's very easy to do.
For this, I've done several of these about what's in my podcast player and all I did was I went
into G Potter and exported the OPML file and printed it out and I'm just sitting here
reading through and discussing each of these podcasts.
Now I listen to a lot of podcasts so this is going to end up being a number of shows
to get through all of this.
Now I've done this before but the thing you have to understand is that things change.
I'm older.
My interests are a little bit different than what they were five or ten years ago.
And so what's in my podcast player has changed.
So with that introduction, I'm going to get going here.
And the first one I'm going to mention is a podcast called Discussing Who, which is
about Dr. Who, one of my passions.
Now this is one of my favorite Dr. Who podcasts.
It features three gentlemen from the southern part of the United States.
Kyle Jones and Clarence Brown are both from Mississippi as I understand it.
And Lee Shackleford is from North Carolina.
And they've got a discussing network that does a number.
They do a discussing who, they do a discussing trek that goes into Star Trek.
And I've probably several other things.
The Dr. Who one is the one that I'm interested in.
Now Kyle Jones and Lee Shackleford initially got involved with a podcast that sadly does
not exist anymore called Dr. Who Pod Shock.
And this was really, I think, one of the very first Dr. Who podcasts started up right
around the time that Dr. Who came back in 2005.
And they ran for a number of years and then as happens sometimes, circumstances changed
and the podcast has disappeared.
But Kyle and Lee were on that podcast together at one point.
And then when Pod Shock disappeared, they set up discussing who and it has become one
of my favorites.
Lee Shackleford is a playwright.
And he will probably get to discussing one of his solo podcasts, which is really a audio
drama.
But he brings some insight from being a playwright into the discussion.
Now, I'm going to put in the show notes links to each of the podcasts that I talk about.
So if one of them happens to catch your attention, you can just go to the show notes and sign
up and start listening.
Now the next one is called Talk More Talk, a solo Beatles cast.
Now this one is available as a video cast on YouTube or you can get it as audio.
I listen to audio podcasts most of the time when those are present because that's something
I can do when I'm doing the laundry, driving my car, things like that, work around the
house.
So audio content is useful for that.
So I get it as audio.
And what this is focusing on is the solo catalog of the four people who made up the Beatles.
So they're not directly discussing Beatles material, but they're discussing John Lennon
material, Paul McCartney material, George Harrison material, Ringo Star material.
And I happen to like most of that stuff.
So this is a good one.
And it has four people involved, Tom Hanyadi, who is involved in a solo McCartney podcast
we'll probably get to at some point, Kit O'Toole, Mean Mr. Mayo and Ken Michaels.
Then there's the Beatles multitrack meltdown and this is deconstructed mixes of the music
of the Beatles and related artists.
So this starts picking apart how some of the music is put together and I think it's
an interesting kind of thing if you're onto that sort of thing.
And there's one here called On the Terrace.
Now I mentioned in another one of these episodes, I started with a podcast called Splendid
Chaps and said that the people involved in that had created an audio drama thing called
Night Terrace.
And On the Terrace is a podcast companion that talks about, you know, little discussion
of the show after it's aired, interviews with the people involved, etc.
Now Night Terrace is a BBC Radio 4.
They sold that to the BBC.
So if you're in the UK, you can probably find it wherever you find BBC programs.
I signed up to support the show and I get it that way.
So trying to remember, if you know, I don't remember offhand, which way I signed up to
support it, but one of those online support things.
The next one I want to mention is called the Geeks Guide to the Galaxy.
So obviously a play on the old Douglas Adams Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
It's a science fiction related podcast hosted by David Barr Curtley.
And you know, he'll talk about things involving science fiction.
So he's had guests such as Neil Gaiman, George R.R. Martin, Richard Dawkins, Simon Pegg,
and so on.
So it's on the recommended podcast list from NPR, the Guardian, BBC America.
So it's a discussion about science fiction.
So you know, with Doom movies coming out, they've had some discussions about Doom and
looking at the novels that the movies come from and have two or three guests come on
and participate in the discussion.
Now the next one I want to talk about is called Two Legs, a Paul McCartney podcast.
So this is a play, there's a McCartney song called Three Legs.
My dog has three legs and your dog's got none.
But in this case, it's Two Legs because there's two hosts.
One is Andy Nichols and the other is Tom Hanyadi.
I mentioned Tom as he's also on the Talk More Talk, Solo Beatles podcast.
So this is one that is devoted strictly to Paul McCartney's Solo work and if that's
something you're interested in, check it out.
Now the next one I'm going to mention is called Ten American Presidents.
Now there's, I don't think it's restricted to Ten, I don't know how they started this.
But they tend to have, they have guest hosts that come in and will pick a particular
president or some aspect of that president and talk about it, generally they're people
who have written books or their historians or something like that.
And as someone who loves history, that's the kind of thing I tend to go for.
And speaking of history, another one, the ancient world and this is talking about the
oldest human civilizations, it basically anything up to about 500 BC.
At that point it starts becoming the classical world I suppose is the way you would break
it down.
So you wanted to talk about Sumeria, Babylon, stuff like that or the civilizations in
the Western hemisphere or in China or what have you.
This would be a podcast that might be of interest.
And another one, history, I got a lot of history podcasts, it's called Our Fake History.
And what this is about is things that people think are true because the stories have been
going around and you know you hear about it and the host will then dig into it and show
in various ways.
Well this isn't exactly the way things were.
So you know did Cleopatra commit suicide by clutching an ass to her bosom and no that's
not really what happened.
So again you'd have to like history and enjoy getting to the bottom of some of these stories
but I do so that's one of the ones I like.
The next one is space rocket history.
Now this is a series that has been going on for a while.
They've got a few hundred, usually a few hundred shows by now they started with a few things
going back to Oberth and Seal Klofsky and some of the early pioneers and then working
into actual space exploration that just finished Skylab like last week as I'm recording this.
They look at both America and the Soviet Union and at the point we're at because it's
done chronologically.
We haven't gotten to the post Soviet Union yet but they have done shows you know looking
at the Soviet efforts in space and they're very interesting.
I have a strong interest in space and science fiction, all of those things sort of tied
together for me.
So this is something that I really enjoy.
Another history one, Renaissance English history a show about the tutors.
So a lot went on then, Henry VIII broke with the Catholic Church and established a Protestant
religion.
There were wars with Scotland and France and Spain.
The birth of the modern world, the tutors started the exploration.
It didn't really get going in earnest until the stewards but it started with the tutors.
So there's a lot of good stuff going on here.
And there is the history of Byzantium which tells the story of the Eastern Roman Empire.
Now the Roman Empire started obviously in Rome but in the 4th century Constantine moved
his capital from Rome to a city that he ended up calling Constantinople in his own name.
And then in the 5th century the Roman Empire in the West fell.
You can argue about when.
Now there was a wonderful podcast by Mike Duncan.
We talked about him when we looked at his podcast called Revolutions.
He started though with one called the history of Rome and he took Rome from the founding
of the city all the way up to the fall of the Roman Empire in the West.
And the date that a lot of people used for that is 476 AD when the last emperor was deposed.
So this other fellow decided that he loved what Mike Duncan had done but he wanted to
continue the story.
And there was still a Roman Empire in existence.
It just had a capital in what is now Istanbul in the East.
And he's got a point because the people there thought of themselves as Romans.
They called the land they lived in Romania.
We call it Byzantium long after the fact that was not a name that any of those people
ever used.
And that Eastern Roman Empire lasted for another thousand years after the fall of the Western
Roman Empire.
So it's pretty significant.
And Robin does a good job of exploring that history basically from the 476 AD when it fell
in the West to 1453, which is when Constantinople finally falls to the Ottoman Turks.
So with that, this is a hookup for Hacker Public Radio signing off and as always encouraging
you to support free software.
Bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an onstoast.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
