Episode: 4485
Title: HPR4485: Git for Github and Gitlab
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4485/hpr4485.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 14:55:53

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4485 for Friday the 10th of October 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Get For Github and GetLab.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 8 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 talks about GPG and SSH keys forget.
Hello, this is your host Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, I get a crash course on Get and thought it would be a good episode.
Not actually on Get Itself, but how to use it on GetHub and GetLab.
Getting Get Itself has been covered quite a bit by Kla2 and Yannick.
First off, I am looking for a job, so I thought it would be a great time to brush up on my
Get knowledge and make a show too.
Of course, I am no get expert in it by any means, but it has been said in comments,
Hacker Public Radio is my memory.
You will want to create an SSH key and a GPG key for each get instance.
In this case, I will use both GetHub and GetLab.
A few other sites host get files, which are Hacker Public Radio's own Githia, and then
there is Nahnabog and Kodberg.
I know this is old for a lot of people, but you will want to create an SSH key with SSH
keyjown, which will create an ED25519 key pair.
Several years ago, this was not the default, I can't remember what it was, but there was
another type, and then you add an entry to .ssh config for each get instance.
The host is getHub.com, the user is always get, and I use an identity file, which is SSH
key, located under the .ssh directory, and then there is the host for getLab.
The user and there is always get, then you would want to use SSH dash add for each unique
get key.
Now for signing each commit, you would need a GPG key, which is generated by GPG space,
dash, dash, full, dash, generate, dash key.
The command to list the keys for public keys is GPG dash dash, list dash public dash keys,
and that will be a 40 character string that we will use in several places.
There are a couple of get variables that need to be defined.
The first is get, space, config, space, dash, dash, global, user, dot, signing key, space,
and this is where you put the 40 character public key.
Then the command is get, space, config, space, dash, global, space, commit, dot, GPG sign,
space, true,
and then to prepare the public key for copying to get hub or get lab or whichever one you
would use is GPG, space, dash, dash, armor, space, dash, dash, export, and you put the
public key here, and then you take the output and copy to one of the get repositories
and it's beginning of the key will say begin PGP.
There are some small differences between the way the information is entered and get lab
versus get hub.
In get lab, you go to your avatar, you go to edit profile to SSH keys and add key, which
is on the right hand side.
And then on your computer, you can't tilde slash dot SSH slash get lab key dot pub, copy
this and go to add key.
Check out the terminal, you would type get, space, remote, space, set, dash, URL, space
origin, space, get, at symbol, getlab.com slash your username, slash your getlab repo dot
get, then go to edit profile, go to GPG keys and then add key, which is on the right hand
side and copy and add the public key from GPG dash, dash, list, dash, public, dash keys.
Now over on get hub, you would go to your avatar, settings, SSH and GPG keys, new SSH key.
You can't your tilde slash dot SSH slash get hub key dot pub.
You add in a title and a key and then add SSH key.
Check out the terminal, you would type get, space, remote, space, set, dash, URL, origin,
space, get, at getlab.com colon, your user slash get hub repo dot get, then for your GPG
key, you go to avatar, settings, SSH and GPG keys, new GPG key.
You add a title for your key, you get the key from GPG dash, dash, list, dash, public,
dash keys and add in your key here.
For the next part, I didn't want to think about it too much, so I asked Cloud.io because
I wanted to create a page for my resume on get hub.io, created a repository in your name
at something like resume or my resume, upload your HTML resume file and name it index.html.
Go to your repository settings, go to pages, under source, select deploy from a branch,
choose if it's the main branch, choose the main branch and the root folder.
Your resume will be available at https colon slash slash your username dot get hub dot
bio slash resume, and about 10 to 15 minutes, I had a resume uploaded here, and once I learned
how to use CSS, I can create a better looking page.
That's all I have for now.
If this has been interesting, please comment or if you have critiques, let me know too,
or record a show of your own.
If you have interesting thoughts or ideas that you would like to share, this has been
Archer72 for Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
