Episode: 4234
Title: HPR4234: OggCamp 2024 Day 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4234/hpr4234.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:51:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4234 for Thursday the 24th of October 2024.
Today's show is entitled Awkamp 2024 Day 2.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 41 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Interviews from Day 2 of Awkamp 2024 from Manchester.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is Day 2 of the coverage of AgCab 2024.
We had the first episode yesterday, so sit back, relax and enjoy the remaining interviews.
Hi everybody, we're at Awkamp and I'm speaking to Dan Lynch.
And Dan, you were the man who started this whole thing off.
Come back, I reckon.
The very, very, very, very first one of these was 2009 in Wolverhampton.
And that was called...
It was Awkamp. It was called Awkamp.
Awkamp. Yeah, there was no year attached to it because we didn't think it was going to happen again.
So we just called it Awkamp here.
But that came out of Log Radio Live.
So they had the final Log Radio Live on the Saturday of the weekend.
And then they didn't have anything on Sunday.
And we agreed to do the Sunday.
So it was almost like a handover, which was cool.
So people could come for both and we just did it in hotel in Wolverhampton on the top floor.
We didn't know if anyone was going to turn up.
And then there was a snake of people down the stairs.
Awesome.
Yeah, which was great.
Yeah, yeah.
So how's the change over the years?
Did it...
Yeah.
No, how's it changed?
It's not bigger, I think.
And there's always new ideas.
So I'm not one of the organizers this year.
I'm just attending.
Just...
So it's really interesting to experience it from like a...
I don't want to say user, but almost like a user's perspective.
I'm like, oh, this is what it's like to come to this.
Yeah.
And I've never done that before.
So we have new ideas.
So there's things like the swap table.
Yep.
Is new.
This is...
That's an interesting idea.
There's lots of stuff there.
People can bring stuff, leave stuff, take stuff.
Bits of gadgetry and technology and stuff, which is very cool.
And they've done a few things.
Like you could buy your t-shirts with your ticket this year.
That was a new thing.
That was a good idea.
And I think moving the t-shirt sound here has been great for...
for footfall pass boots.
For, yeah, for you guys, yeah.
I mean, you've been to quite...
I'm going to...
I'm all my setting tables on here.
But you've been to quite a lot of op camps.
How's it changed for you?
Well, I remember I went to the first leg radio live.
Yeah.
And that was in the...
The football stage.
Your football stage in Wondrous.
Wolverham to Wondrous.
And I rang my wife gone,
what am I doing here?
And listen to this radio show.
And they're talking to these guys.
And you walk in and it's not just so chill.
Yeah.
It is as good.
It's lovely to see people kind of connecting
and, you know, making friends and connections
that they wouldn't have done otherwise.
And it's amazing.
Because you can meet anyone from, you know,
the head of, like, a massive project
to somebody who's just starting out
and got maybe got their first brass boot pie
and they want to learn about it.
And you can put them together.
And, you know, it's really nice.
Everybody's really open to talking.
And the old classic you're in the bar.
Yeah.
Behind you, there's like...
Did I just leave my podcast player running?
Why is it running on it half the speed?
So...
Yes, they just asked me in the main track
that you've handled from Linux Outdoors.
And I said, yeah, I am.
And they were like, oh, I thought that was you.
But they're not from just my voice, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
And, which is a little worn today,
but it's not too bad.
So, speaking of that,
I got your permission to ask this.
How was the help you struggled there with?
I did, yeah.
I had...
So, I don't know how much detail you want, really.
But I had a...
Okay, cool.
So, I had a thing called
Sudamexoma Paraton,
which is a very rare form cancer.
And it's, I think, one in 1.6 million
or something, chance of getting it.
Yeah.
So, you immediately ran out of balls of loss or tickets?
Yeah.
Well, that's what I thought.
Yeah.
So, I had that about seven years ago.
Yeah.
And I still got...
So, at the moment, I'm not in any kind of treatment.
I'm all clear, which is great.
Great.
Yeah, it's good news.
So, I had surgery for that.
I had two rounds of surgery.
I had experimental treatment,
which has a geek was really interesting,
because they did the Christie in Manchester.
Yeah.
We're relatively close to right now.
They did a thing called a high peck,
which is where they put...
So, they basically cut out any cancerous material.
And then they put in these pipes into your kind of side.
And here's this heated...
It stands for heated internal...
I should murder this.
Heated internal...
Something came with therapy.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
And then they wash...
Kind of like a washing machine.
They wash the inside.
And they...
Anything that they haven't managed to find,
they're caught out.
Yeah, it's caught by that.
It's caught by that.
Yeah.
So, it's not like traditional chemo therapy,
which is nice.
Although, I did joke with the doctor.
He said to me,
you won't get any of the side effects
that you get from traditional chemo therapy.
And I said,
I'm already bald.
So, I put it by one, that one.
Yeah.
But if, yeah, so I already...
It didn't matter for that.
But yeah, it's been going well.
So, I still get a bit tiredness and so on it.
So, I'll probably next week have a good rest, I think.
Yeah, good idea.
It's...
I must say,
I've really missed...
I'll camp for doing the reverse conversation.
I really missed the I'll camp.
And I didn't realize I missed it until I came here
because, you know, some of the things that we hit
as a project on HPR,
like for example,
bringing in the commons for Mastodon.
So, we post shows in Mastodon.
We never have the engagement
that we have on Mastodon on Twitter.
So, we can get your opinion on this, actually.
Okay.
So, the technique we have,
one of the guys that has done an episode
that's ready to do the technical part.
Well, the problem is,
say we were, we posted a show
and the ephemeral, the temporary nature of Mastodon.
Some people get annoyed
if their commons are swapped up.
Now, for personally use, that's fine.
But we want to take them and convert them
into creative commons CC by S.A.
So, the people didn't have them on their hardest.
It's been the end of the world of commons.
It's still got hacker-pairing radio.
And you can rebuild civilization.
So, the first step.
How do I, how do I do that?
How do I capture the commons that are on the next episode?
Yeah.
And while at the same time respecting people's views,
other than getting on every single,
every time somebody commons getting explicit, yeah.
So, I'm going to say, yeah, I think the only way I'd,
I mean, I'm not illegal.
No, it's not.
But the only way I can think of them,
it was that you'd have to get their consent.
Exactly.
So, you could pop in the post.
Please, like they do at events where they don't have a thing
that says, please be where you may be photographed.
Yeah.
Or something like that.
You put your post.
You think up, yeah.
So, on your, on your post,
where they're going to comment,
you can put in text of the post.
Please be aware of your comments.
Yes.
And I'm, well, we're struggling with that
because last night that came up in the pub,
I'm never thinking brilliant.
Of course, I had two beers.
And then I woke up a five this morning,
going, but if somebody, well,
actually decided the last night,
if somebody replaced that out of context,
so you mentioned something that was initiated
by a conversation on HBR.
And then some other random person
whose privacy can't just come from comments to you,
then, so it's a, it's a,
it's a, I don't know.
I don't know the actual, yeah.
I don't know that there is like a catchal kind of thing.
But for me, what has been great is to talk to people
like you and other people in other projects
who, who understand the implications for free software
and the licensing and what we're trying to do
and trying to balance the community out.
So I feel like, okay, it is a big problem
and we do need to tackle this.
But and you get that here.
I know also it was great.
Just go talk to him or talk to him
because he's done it and then I've had it.
Something like Masadam,
what he might be able to do is script,
some script where you could say,
fire for message to all the people
who've commented on this thread.
Yeah, just informing them that
that you're going to do something with their comments
unless they tell you.
Yeah, you could do the unless thing actually.
That would be, that would be,
I'm concerned then from a security point of view,
are we going to be doing,
are they going to use that to DDoS HPR
or is HPR are going to, yeah.
But no, that then becomes an engineering problem.
Yeah.
Which is hard, but I have people for that.
So it's they, but that's a good,
that's a good one, yeah.
It's really like me.
Yeah, so we could put in the permission,
the assumption and then just get a confirmation after a week.
Yeah, okay, good.
Yeah, that's what he, that's what foster.
All right, that's what I've been to foster,
which is a great conference.
But here you get more time.
Foster, it's great, but it's big.
The real action.
It's a standalone driven.
And big and you kind of, it's easy to messed up.
Yeah, I think part of the joy of having
this about 200-ish people to come for this,
which I'm delighted about,
because after five years,
it could have been in nobody to, yeah.
So it's great that the community is still there.
Yeah.
But first thing I found, it's fantastic
and they do an amazing job.
And I'm going to cast any exposure.
No, but it's a different design.
It's so big.
It's a different event.
The scale of it is so huge.
It's hard to kind of take it in.
Yeah.
Well, fantastic.
Listen, great to have called up with you.
I'm sure people are thrilled to have heard your voice
and hear that you're in good shape.
And hopefully we'll see you next year.
You signed in?
Do I get it?
It's finished.
And I've managed to trap.
Hi, I'm Terence Eden.
Hi Terence.
And you're here with our camp.
What project are you here talking about?
So I'm talking about a project I run with my wife,
which is called Open Benches.
So it's openbenches.org.
It is a crowdsourced website of memorial benches.
So you can go along.
If you see a bench, which says,
someone's always used to live here,
someone's always used to like the view.
Take a geotech photo of that.
And put it on the website.
We automatically put it on a map.
We do automatic text recognition on it.
And we release all the data under creative commons.
That sounds very similar to another project.
I know.
The name escapes me for a moment.
Taking random things from the end of the year.
It was five days a week.
But people might not understand what you're talking about
with the benches.
We have a lot of people from continent of Europe
and it's not a common thing there.
So tell us what that is.
Yeah, so a memorial bench.
It is a weirdly kind of English thing.
So think of a bench that you'd have in a park or by a beach.
And what people do is they attach little metal plates to them,
which says, in memory of Auntie Joan,
who used to love this view.
Or in memory of my friend Tim, who was such a great laugh.
And it's a weird thing.
It's almost a bit like, it's like a public memorial.
So if you think lots of countries do blue plaques
and things like that, which said,
someone very famous lived and worked here.
Or this is where the inventor of something
spent their time.
But there's nothing like that for you and me.
I mean, I'm assuming that you're not so famous.
You have a black.
So I don't like to plaster myself.
And graveyards are a place where you can only go to Morton.
Whereas out in public, you can just be walking along
at a beautiful hill somewhere like that.
And he's like, oh, good, there's a bench there.
And as you go and sit down, you say,
oh, someone used to like being here.
And you know, it's someone's mom, someone's dad,
someone's kids.
And they paid for the bench and put the bench.
They paid for the bench.
They put it there so that you can enjoy that view.
But also so that you can spend a little time
remembering someone who you don't know.
That's very nice.
Every time I've been after a lot of several times,
and it always brings a bit of a tear to me, I have to say.
I do enjoy graveyards, weirdly enough.
What a wonderful visit cities.
Because it's a lovely quiet place.
And again, with the benches, the tent to be in lovely place.
This is the thing.
So when you submit a photo to our site,
you can submit a close-up of the inscription
and also a photo of the bench itself.
But we also encourage people to take a photo from the bench.
So sit down, take a photo of what you can see.
And most of the time, it's beautiful seascapes.
It's a gorgeous tree. It's a lovely park.
And sometimes it's a bit sad.
It's a graveyard and sometimes it's a bench
which has been damaged.
Occasionally, you find benches in supermarkets.
And they've been put there because a colleague has died.
Or sometimes you'll be at a motorway service station.
Which, let's be honest, it's not the most beautiful environment.
But it's a memorial to someone who was there for a brief time.
And you will be grateful of that.
See, and even if the view isn't amazing,
it just gives you a chance to think about all the people around you.
So the way we think of it is a psychogiography project.
You can look at our map and you can see clusters of places
which are beautiful because people have chosen to put a marker there
to say, this is where I want to remember my friend, my loved one.
OK.
Why do you need special planning?
I can't imagine just in the Netherlands plonking a bench down.
There's got to be regulations and you've got to get approval from them.
Sure. Yeah. I mean, most most countries,
if you go to your local government, your local council and say,
I want to sponsor a bench, they will have a form and you can pay
how many pounds or as euros to do that.
If it's your own land, you can put your own bench wherever you want.
For public land, most public authorities want money
to pay for benches and amenities.
So the public authority gets a few hundred dollars, euros, whatever,
to maintain it.
And you, in return, you get that little plaque, which says so and so used to be here.
Yeah. And they're more than happy to do that with advertising
at bus stations for the advertisers.
This is it. Why should all of our senses be assaulted by by this beer,
eat this burger? Why aren't there more things in public,
which say this person was really nice.
I really loved that person and it seems ridiculous to me
that the only sort of sanctioned way to do that is via benches.
I mean, I love it. This is why we run open benches.
No one has a complete list of these.
We've got, or I think it's about 33,000 benches across the world,
not just in the UK.
And it's amazing just how many people care enough to pay to remember someone.
And I think that's a lot better than as you say bus stop adverts and things like that.
Okay. Now, taking the step back,
we run Hacker Public Radio. It's a community podcast.
We upload audio from random people in the internet.
So I can see similarities in our project.
You choose what license for your content.
So it's all Creative Commons attribution.
So people are uploading photos and we say,
yeah, you've just got to license them to us under Creative Commons for.
The inscriptions, I mean, we say our database is
similarly licensed as Creative Commons.
Are those the texts on those memorials cooperated there?
I think they're fairly short and probably aren't.
If anyone complains, we'd be happy to take them down.
But the database is there.
You can download it all as GeoJSON for free.
You can download a MySQL dump from our GitHub website.
If you want to do that, we've had people.
Someone, we ask someone to download all the photos of benches
and then train an AI to create new benches.
And so it just created these beautiful, impossible benches based on this.
We've also trained it to generate inscriptions,
which is a bit weird because it stops talking about people who don't exist,
who haven't died.
So that's very strange.
Come on to a theater near you.
So we don't own these benches.
You know, people have paid for them and councils have put them out.
We're asking people to donate their photos.
It's only right that we say, and anyone can use them.
Because the reason you put this memorial down there
is because when someone is walking past,
you want them to sit down and go,
oh, that's an interesting little fact about that person.
So we want to share that with the world.
Is there any way to do a small biography of the people
that were there at the story of the first?
There's some of them, yeah.
I mean, some people are famous and you can go on to Wikipedia.
We have comments on the website.
So if you happen to find your relative's bench,
you can put in a link to their obituary
or you can write a little bit about them if you want.
So yeah, but a lot of these things,
when he just says to mom and dad
who you still love sitting here, love from...
We have seven, seven, so.
There's nothing to know.
All you need to know is this was a spot
that someone found beautiful.
Fantastic.
Thank you very much.
It's great to hear that you're doing this.
It's great that it's a freely open source.
And thanks for taking the time.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you for interviewing me.
And yeah, if any of your listeners are out and about,
if you're out for a walk,
while you're listening to this podcast,
and you see a bench,
take a geotact photo,
and upload it to boomanbenches.walk.
Thank you very much.
Well, it's fine.
And we're no interview series
about outcome fully complete
without talking to one of the organizers themselves.
And that is,
I'm Simon Fips.
And Simon, why are you here?
Why are you always associating you with outcome?
Well, so, outcome is very much a grassroots activity.
The volunteers who organize it are an energetic
and dedicated crew,
but it's too much of a burden to
do Ogcamp every year for all eternity.
And so, it's a rotating,
clinging, shifting group of volunteers.
Yeah.
We found that we don't think there's anyone
who's been to every Ogcamp.
There's no single organizer who's organized
all of the events.
So, back in 2017,
they approached me because I run
an organization called Public Software CIC.
Yep.
CIC is a UK business structure
which has no benefit learners
and looks a lot like a public charity
but does not get any tax exemption.
And consequently has a much lighter
regulatory environment with less reporting.
Okay.
And so, I run Public Software CIC
as a host for projects
which wouldn't happen if the organizers
had to go and incorporate.
Yeah.
So, I run in Public Software CIC,
for example,
I run a thing called Cosm
which is the community of Open.
Open, it's the community of Open.
Doctorate for maintenance.
Yep.
And we crowdfund the editing
of the ODF format through that fact.
Very good.
So, then another project that I host
is this event, Ogcamp.
And Public Software CIC looks after
the domain names,
trademarks.
We look after the money.
We sign all the contracts.
And consequently, the volunteers
can just get on with organizing the conference
with that having to worry about book keepers
and regulatory filings and tax filings and so on.
And so, I then come along
and act as the treasurer at the event
and I make sure that everything's paid for.
Apart from that, I haven't spoken
at anything this year.
I haven't attended any talks this year.
I've just been hanging out.
So, now I'm telling you what I'm saying.
In many ways, I'm the least visible member of the team here
because I don't get on stage.
You talk about anything.
But I am here paying all the bills
and persuading the sponsors to pay for.
Last time we had a bar tap
that was sponsored by a per rights group.
Very grateful for it.
It meant that people could socialize
and aggregate congregate in the bar
with a per rights group
as the focal point of their conversations.
It was great.
Yeah, great stuff.
We've been away for five years.
Has anything been different?
Do you think it's been a good thing?
Are we likely to see it continue?
So, we were away for five years
because it is a volunteer and activity.
There was a changeover of volunteers after 2019.
And so, a new group of volunteers
were going to hold it in Scotland in 2020.
And COVID obviously stopped that.
And in 2021, we have to make the decisions
at a point where COVID was still an issue.
So, we didn't want 2021 either.
Yeah.
And then in 2022,
that group of volunteers
still felt they couldn't run it.
We had a new volunteer come in
but it was too late for them to take over 2023.
Yeah.
But that new volunteer was Gary Williams
who's been the organiser this year
in 2024 here in Manchester.
We've just got a new team together.
It's, we have Andy Piper.
We have, we have a main,
I'm sorry, a lot of amazing name.
May Macinty Macinty Macinty.
We have Andy Piper
and the four of us have agreed
we are going to put on or captain 2025.
It is going to be in Manchester.
It is going to be round about the same sort of dates
if we can get the hotel.
And we're going to try and make it smoother,
bigger, more friendly, more community centric
than we've been able to do before.
And it was already pretty damn community centric before this.
So, I'm really looking forward to next year's conference.
I think it's going to be a really great experience.
I'm, I'm excited to hear that.
That's great news.
And I've also felt myself coming back to the end.
It's taken me a while to get back,
to get comfortable with people into conferences.
And oh, how do I record again?
So, it's been,
but I'm also been catching up with everybody.
It's been great.
So, I've actually taken a leaf out of a book
of another colleague, another project I work with is Al Moulinux.
And their slogan is no drama, just linux.
And, and that no drama approach is very much
how I've been trying to deal with things at all campus here.
No, there's not have any drama.
No fuss.
Just get on, have a great community event
that's about talks and about the people.
And, and I think that's going to be the,
the key, the keynote for the next year's event as well.
Yeah.
Again, the only, the only issue I had with outcome
is the same one I had every year.
Too many good talks.
I'm sitting here chatting with somebody.
They're telling me fantastic stories.
Do you get up and go to another talk or not?
And it's just that's, but you can't fix that.
Well, you know what we really need, Ken?
We need some organization.
It's good at making recordings of talks
who might be able to come along and, you know,
I'm going through a tunnel.
If you know anyone like that,
maybe they could come next year
and help us solve that problem.
So, you can attend to your jobs.
I will think about this, yes.
Anything else that we missed?
Or we should, we should, obviously, thank the people.
Well, you know, we have a great group of sponsors
who've made the event happen this year.
We have, and I can't necessarily remember them.
But, you know, we've got code think.
We've got collaborative productivity with collaboration online.
We particularly have the union of technology and allied workers
who have been tremendous partners for us this year
in making the event happen.
And, you know, I'm very pleased to partner with them
and I hope they'll come again.
Our sponsors are great people
because they were happy to sponsor
even though there wasn't necessarily
other marketing value in what was happening here to them
because they believe that
strong cohesive community is the route
to open source innovation.
Yep.
Well, that's ended on that because
thank you very much.
And I look forward to talking to you next year.
Thank you very much, Joaquin.
Thank you.
Thank you for keeping on doing
Act Public Radio.
It's been a long time.
Thank you very much.
Okay, so.
Hi.
I'm just at the end of
I'll come on.
Can this over and I'm talking to Dan.
And you were this seed.
Sorry.
No, no, no, it's fine.
It's probably kind of all.
Yeah, that was Dan Lynch going off
wishing everybody well.
So this was this your first outcome?
Yes, it was.
And you also just gave a lightning talk.
I did. Thank you.
Yes.
I don't find public speed very natural.
So it was pretty intimidating.
But yeah, really enjoyed it.
It was a good experience.
And what was your lightning talk?
What is the lightning talk?
Can you tell people what that's?
Sure thing.
So lightning talks are, I think they can be planned
or in prompt to five minute talks.
They do a half hour session
and six people give a five minute talk each.
So it's meant to be like a really rapid fire
quick fire round of talks.
Yeah, I get the impression they're trying to draw people
in who haven't done a talk before.
They're shorter than the talks.
They do elsewhere during org camp.
So yeah, it was a really good stepping stone.
I hadn't planned to do one before I arrived.
So it was a good thing to do.
And it's a fantastic session because it's before the raffle.
So I'm just before everything's over.
So lots of people were coming in
and the hole was actually full.
So what was your talk about?
My talk was a compilation of open culture resources
that I've collected over a long period of time.
So I wanted to do something that wasn't software
and I was sitting in the bath trying to think
of what I would talk about.
As you do, as you do.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, I wanted to do something because it was my first time
and I didn't really know anyone
and I'll find talking strangers very natural.
So I thought, how am I going to put myself out there?
Well, probably I should go up in public and talk.
So I was thinking, what can I talk about?
And I realized I was closing all my bookmarks.
I had something like 400 bookmarks open.
And one of the folders I made for them
was open culture stuff.
And I thought, well, probably somebody's
going to want to hear about it.
So I put it all on a web page and then talked about it.
And one of those people,
as Luke would have it, will be interviewing you right now
because on Hacker Public Radio on the very bottom of the page,
we have this link to open culture links.
And your presentation will be added
as the links from there will be added there.
Some of them we already have, the Libra Box.
Yes.
And some that I just found as well, an image searches
and a period of common image searches.
So we got a few more.
So there, right there, you've hit your target audience
on the very first go.
So will you be back here next year?
A big question.
100%.
Yeah, I've been on the lookout for other places to go.
I'm definitely going to foster them in February.
I think it's in February.
Yeah, it's awesome.
Yeah, yeah, really keen for it.
I would have gone this year, but I had it all the day
but I found out the date.
So yeah, definitely looking to get more involved.
I'll make sure that page has a permanent link
because the one I put it on was literally just the last minute.
I realized I didn't have an hdmi port.
And I thought, how am I going to get this to them?
And I just went, OK, well, I'll just put it on the internet.
We'll be able to do it whenever.
So we'll make a great show.
We've been to our camp several times,
and we've been to foster them several times.
We'd be great to get somebody else's opinion
of the differences between other camp and foster them.
So can I ask you, after you've done foster them,
can you record a quick, just come back from foster them,
something like this, and send it into HBO.
Absolutely, I'll put it in my calendar.
So I remember, yeah, good, excellent.
Fantastic, thanks very much.
And enjoy the evening, and let's meet up for a beer.
You're welcome. Thanks very much.
Let's look forward to it.
So here we are, on camp that is over, on camp 24.
It's been five years.
The table was julie mound by mostly Mr. X, Dave.
I wasn't to be there more this year than it was.
Lovely years.
So then, how?
I wasn't to be here.
You are.
What's the question again, as far as you do?
How was it for you?
How was it for you?
It was really good.
From the point of view of lots of people
coming up to our table going, what is this all about?
What's this HBO?
I'll come and have a sticker and start an account.
And we were trying to explain all the factors and stuff.
And they were, I think, in the main, very, very
of rest, often stopped to continue chatting with us.
We had several cases where people hung on for about an hour
or so, having long chats with us about all manner of things.
I hope that what we were sending was, we're kindred spirits
like you, or you came to the spirits like us.
So let's hang out a bit more and do us a show, which is.
Yeah, it was, at some point, like, people were at the booth
standing so long, I bought them over a chair.
And then, you know, I come back and have our late game,
but they're still there.
So this breaks.
I will walk a little bit, so we had on the booth
because I was doing the Haraq presentation.
We had, you brought your radios.
I had some stuff, and you had a counter and stuff
that brought out a different type of person, at all.
Yeah, there was quite a bit of interest,
got a lot of interest in, and I'm to really say the things.
I'm not particularly active in amateur games these days.
But it's still a little bit, and yeah, there was a lot of interest
I felt.
It seems to look at a link between it.
I'm to really do one in Dikini and podcasts,
and lots of stuff, you know, so yeah, there's a lot of interest.
And what I found kind of interesting as well was,
oh, a whole goal of all their hosts and other podcasts.
Oh, yeah, my license.
I've been licensed for, God knows how long
and plenty of users for HBR, that I had no idea
were licensed emitters, and turns out that in fact,
that they are.
So it's pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you never know who's going to license,
who's not going to license it's just,
we're not, when you do a video show,
we can be in bad days, I mean,
not that, yeah, you just don't know.
That's it, yeah.
I found a lot like, I'm like,
I don't want to be encouraging somebody to do you.
Oh, yeah, thanks.
I'm having a query.
Lovely stuff, thank you.
Excellent.
So this interview is going to wrap up very, very soon,
with what I mean, dinner is good, full.
Well, yeah, I didn't know whether there were going
to be a HBR person, whether there were interest
just because of the family stuff.
Well, either way, it's fine.
That was the last one.
Right.
So whether they come on amateur radio,
enthusiast or whether they do HPR or whatever,
you need both, you never know.
And you did make the point that you thought that
this was a really good event to get interest in HPR.
And I was slightly skeptical to the truth,
but now that I've seen that, excellent.
Yeah, it's going to bring people into the HPR
and agree with that, definitely, yeah.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, cool.
Dave, you and I have been to Flosstan.
Now, we've, I love Flosstan and everything.
The cutting edge of technology and stuff.
How do you think it compares to income first in general,
and then later on, how does it feel?
How does it compare for the project of HPR as HPR?
But with limited resources, where is the best place to go?
Well, I think that I'll come.
It's got a much stronger community, sociability,
sort of promotion, if you like.
There's nothing wrong with Flosstan, Flosstan is brilliant.
But what you've tend to find is that the sociability
is between the groups of the people
who come there as a group or meet up with other similar groups.
Just going there as a sort of general observer,
you don't get a huge lot of sociability.
Nobody rejects you.
You can buy people a chat too and stuff.
But I'll come on the other hand is very much
a bunch of geeks getting together
and sometimes having a chat and finding,
oh, that's an interesting chat.
Let's have another one, you know,
and just making social connections.
And you hope we'll continue and we'll turn into a show
or something of that, so.
I think case some point was that non-interview
with the guy Tom, who turned off of the booths.
Very interesting guy had loads of interesting stuff to say.
Would not want us to record it.
Did not want to send in the show.
Yeah, at the same time, I'm going,
there is a whole gap in the market.
It's not for interesting things.
The age of tool, age, pensioners and communities,
are building communities there
and getting people to active and upload.
Yeah, we were all pinned to everybody
who was saying it was so interesting
and we were saying, you know, it's just fantastic.
And we were like, oh, one of the cards, one of the cards.
We did ask you a few times.
You might have been able to know another, not, you know.
It's so good to know something.
I was like a podcast with three subscribers.
I was looking over at you two guys.
If anyone was in trouble, doesn't it?
Yes.
Fantastic, really good.
You know, I wasn't sure what,
let's see my office in my first,
I'll come, I had no idea what to expect.
You haven't been here before?
Nope, that's my first dog cap.
So yeah, yeah, so,
so I never knew what to expect.
And so I went, I've been at three or four of the talks
and whatnot.
And obviously, I spent a bit of time
on the hackable videos there, still.
And people are made so interesting
and I'm not genuinely a sociable person.
It's a fine thing to think of things, you know,
but fantastic.
You have to come into it if you get the chance.
Absolutely.
And I must say that we were paying for the,
we went into the recording of TuxJem.
And the point is getting home there.
I remember when we came,
we've been at Alchem several times this HBR.
And so many people who are on all the podcasts
are also HBR hosts.
And other podcasts have been featured on HBR.
And, you know, the cross-pollulation thing.
So, HBR TV is kind of somewhere
where people will hang announce.
It's like the smoking sheds,
you know, the bike TV in the second disco.
Yeah, I've put the place to meet up.
It seemed to talk to me.
Absolutely, yeah, yeah.
He says with a big lump of pizza and he's like,
I'm sorry.
I just wanted to send to the guys
when I came first years ago.
It was difficult to get people to open up
and have interviews.
And now it's up.
And did you want to touch up on the project itself?
So the value of what we're doing on HBR
is a promotional thing as a community that gets the projects
and the reasoning behind this was fantastic.
For myself, you know,
some great discussions with lots of the guys
who are on social media.
Maybe some that might be on the proprietary software,
some who are very much on the open side
and we were discussing this issue
of what to do with the mastodon comments.
Now, getting mastodon comments
into the experimental common feed of course
is something that you technically like to do.
But when presented with this particular use case
of HBR, where we're going to convert
comments into creative comments, comments,
how do we do that?
What's the breast prod?
And there's been some very good suggestions.
So we might be able to take that forward as well.
So it was great to talk to other like-minded people
about that and who are aware of the issues
and go, mm, yeah, I see your problem now.
I wouldn't worry about it,
but then again, I'm not redistributing this stuff, but.
Yeah, we're talking about that over a breakfast.
And it's a lot more to than I would have realized.
It's kind of, I'm not good at, obviously,
illegalese and whatnot.
No, what implications it would be, but yeah, yeah,
it's tricky, tricky.
Because if you are one of the janitors
who pays for the domain name, they have your address
and you're the one responsible.
So at the end of the day, we need to make sure
that stuff is sorted.
But it was great.
I felt we made some progress on that.
We made some progress on police.
And along with my McNally and Kevin still haven't
leveled for a few days.
I'll never go back.
Big adventure about going to the restaurants,
having a McNally were back.
Oh, I'd say what happened, yeah.
No, no, no, no.
Unfortunately, it got lots of restaurants.
But the hotel's not in that place.
Where the lots of restaurants are, I can't worry.
Yeah, yeah, because it seemed like the job,
all of Manchester had my dollar of food that they make me win.
Apparently, the universities had their open day
and all the parents had brought down
and booked all the restaurants.
And literally yesterday, the restaurant had run out of food.
Oh, yeah, and of course, that also felt particularly
good because my, yeah, but three dishes exactly the same.
And I just came first, I said,
and I said, can I do that first thing on on that, two for first.
And then, of course, those are all like who are about
other two dishes.
Must've been three times a one person.
I went to, I went and reordered our meals.
So there's four people missing, two of them down around.
And then I'm going to tune when I was finished,
we had to reordering it from the other two people.
So to pages before devs, we used to run.
Yeah, the David Davis just about nine years is less.
So, you know, is that only a good shot?
So is there anything else that stands out?
Our show would cover it on the community news.
We probably said enough, actually,
because enjoy our meal.
We're sitting here in a very, very busy way.
Yeah, if you can hear what we are seeing,
but this, Michael was doing a fantastic job
because it's pretty loud.
All right, thank you.
And it's over.
It is, we got it done.
So, Ocamp is finished for another year.
And who are you?
I'm Gary and was the organizer of Ocamp this year?
Wow, that was something else.
I didn't want to say we interviewed you before the amount.
I didn't want to say you're not, but you're not.
Yeah, it was a bit of a crazy decision,
particularly with a three month old
to decide to organize a big conference.
But I think it's been a success.
I think the feeling I've got from people on the ground
is it felt like an Ocamp.
Everyone is glad it's back.
Some really interesting statistics about 70% of people
being new to Ocamp, which was incredible.
And I think most of the crew would knew as well.
You wouldn't think of the brilliance like they were amazing.
They did an amazing job.
We could have done it without them and Andy
and everyone else who helped us out.
Yeah, it's been great, actually.
Yeah, so we have, we've done an Ocamp.
I was amazed in the presentation.
You asked the questions.
How many people are given a talk?
The number of hands of a double was amazing.
Yeah, it was, who learned something?
Everyone put their hand up.
Who found out about Andy's project?
Everyone put their hand up.
And for me, that's what Ocamp is about.
It's about bringing people together to learn,
discover new things.
The whole way track is obviously
the most important part.
And it's gone really well.
And I think for me, it was the closing presentation
when you asked those questions.
And everyone has learned something.
And that's, that's for me, what it's about.
I must say from a personal point of view,
it has recharged my batteries
because sometimes life gets hard.
And you know, shit posters, come on.
And they, it takes a lot more energy
than you think to do this work.
But then you come here and you can discuss things
with people who are running similar projects,
other projects.
I have gone back from this, gone.
I'm saying, you know, I may be a bit nuts,
but there are other people who are
into this sort of thing as well.
And it is a value.
And thank you very much for putting it on.
It was super appreciated by everybody.
Yeah, no, you're more than welcome.
And like you say, I'm walking away from it,
exhausted, but recharged.
I've had many conversations over this weekend
with lots of people.
And they all have said, yeah, this is what we needed.
Say, long mate, continue.
Okay, with that, time for beer.
This is it. I'm putting the microphone away.
It is done. It is over.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Hacker Public Radio.
There you go.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio, does work.
Today's show was contributed
by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it may be.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive,
and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
