Episode: 4423
Title: HPR4423: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4423/hpr4423.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:33:06

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,423, but Wednesday the 16th of July 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 Hash 2.
It is hosted by Ahukah, and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, part 2 of my list of subscribed channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
This is not part of any series, this is part of the Reserve Q.
So that means we need shows.
There aren't enough shows being uploaded and we can't had to pull something out of the
Reserve Q.
So you should record something.
And up a show, a Hacker Public Radio can only exist if the people who are members of
the community submit shows.
So take this as an indication you should be doing one right about now.
So this is going to be another show about YouTube channels.
As I've explained previously, I don't watch a whole lot of television but I watch a lot
of YouTube videos and I subscribe to channels in order to do that.
And so I'm just telling you about some of the channels that I subscribe to.
What I did was I went to my YouTube thing in the browser and on the left side is subscriptions
and open that up, it sorted everything into alphabetical order and I'm just going through
it.
So I'm going to start now with the letter B. And this is back to space because I'm a big
space fan.
I have had the opportunity to spend about a week at the Kennedy Center, spend a few days
in Huntsville at the U.S. Space and Rocket Center.
We're looking at trying to get a trip organized to go to Houston so that I can go to the Johnson
Space Center there.
And that shouldn't be surprising because you already know I'm a big science fiction fan
and there's a huge overlap between space freaks and science fiction fans which is I know
quite a revelation to all of you.
So back to space is a nice channel, the host of that channel is a young, young lady.
I say young because I'm 73 compared to me, most people are young.
And she's like the granddaughter of one of the Apollo astronauts.
So that's how she got sucked into all that.
Then the next channel is Baker Street Journal.
Baker Street you should know is the site of the fictional address of Sherlock Holmes,
221 B. Baker Street.
And the Baker Street Journal is a publication of the Baker Street Irregulars, a United States
organization of Sherlock Holmes fans.
And I have been a member of a what is called the Sion Society here in Michigan called
the Arcadia mixture.
So this is just kind of keeping in touch of what's going on in the community of Sherlock
Holmes fans and I enjoy that sort of thing.
The next one is BBC Earth Explore.
These are short videos, typically four or five, six minutes, something like that.
And it's from the BBC so it's pretty high quality stuff.
And it is about exploring in some way.
So it could be spending time in the Arctic or going into the jungles of the Amazon or
whatever they happen to pick up on.
Then there's a channel called Beesmart.
Now this is interesting in that the fellow who does this, who does have a PhD.
So he's got some credibility with me when he talks about that.
And he'll take a particular topic and spend maybe 10 minutes or so unpacking it.
So I enjoy it.
I like science.
I like facts.
I like knowing what's going on.
Now the next one is called Beyond the Sofa.
This is a Doctor Who related channel.
And the reference there is that in England, you know, the kids that would watch Doctor
Who would get scared and would hide behind the sofa and then peek out to see what was
going on on the screen.
So that's the reference that goes into the title.
What this does is this is a fellow who, I think, has a fairly aridite look at particular
episodes.
He does reviews, critiques, what have you.
And I enjoy his take on things.
So I have subscribed to his channel.
Next one, Bill Bruford.
Now Bill Bruford was the drummer for, yes, for some of their most popular, like fragile
and close to the edge.
He was the drummer on those albums.
Then he left, yes, and got involved with King Crimson.
Now he's not in any particular group, but is sort of on his own.
And this channel, you know, he puts out videos of himself playing with people.
Sometimes they're older videos, like some of the old King Crimson or yes, things that
he did.
And sometimes they're newer that he's working with some jazz musicians.
I've seen a few that have a group that is Bill Bruford along with, you know, bass,
saxophone, and keyboards.
But it's all good.
Next channel is called Bizarre Beasts.
And this is about some of the unusual animals that exist in the world.
So, you know, just a fun little thing there.
Then Bostias.
Bostias is a channel that is devoted to computer games, particularly civilization.
But you know, most of the people who have YouTube channels about computer games will cover
more than one type of game.
So while he does a lot of sieve, he does other things as well.
So do I watch all of his videos now, but I do watch a few of them, and they are enjoyable.
And next is Braincraft.
Now Braincraft is another science-oriented channel.
And the woman who hosts it has some background in brain science and also in journalism.
And so takes a look at topics involving the brain or related kinds of things and does
videos about them.
Next is Break Room of Geeks.
Now this is a channel that is an off-shoot of another channel.
The other channel is called Council of Geeks.
This one is Brain Break Room of Geeks.
And the idea was that the main channel has a certain focus.
The break room can get a little further away from that focus.
So it's hosted by someone named Vera Wilde.
The reason I subscribe is for Dr. Who Reviews.
That's mostly what I'm interested in.
She has certainly strong opinions on a number of other topics.
And occasionally if it interests me, I'll listen to her opinions on those as well.
But what got me there and keeps me there mostly is the Dr. Who analysis.
It is pretty good.
So I stay.
Now the next one is one that I subscribe to somewhat recently.
We've just been through an election year in the United States and that can be fairly
traumatic.
But I subscribe to this fellow Brian Tyler Cohen, who does political analysis, basically.
And puts out probably one or two videos every day on current political news.
If you're interested in U.S. politics from a somewhat liberal perspective, then you
might enjoy it.
If you're outside the United States, it probably wouldn't matter much to you at all.
The next channel I subscribe to is Butterfly Spanish.
As I've talked about before, I started learning Spanish when the COVID pandemic hit and all
of us were locked up.
And that happened right after I had retired from my job at Ford Motor Company.
And you know, there is a saying that you have to use it or you lose it.
And I thought I need to do something to keep my brain active and trying to learn another
language sounded like a pretty good way to do that.
And I pick Spanish.
Why did I pick Spanish?
Well, you know, take a look.
We're neighbors with Mexico.
We've got all of Latin America in our hemisphere.
It's the second most popular language in the United States.
So sort of figured like, okay, I'll get more use out of that than anything.
So I picked Spanish.
And I'm still continuing to try and improve my Spanish a little bit.
It's slow going, but the main thing is it's keeping me mentally active.
So that's Butterfly Spanish.
The next channel is called Sea Brin.
Now that is for Cheryl Brin, who is the wife of the author, David Brin.
Now the channel is really David Brin's channel.
It's just in his wife's name.
Why I don't know and really is it any of my business to begin with.
So I don't worry about that.
I'm there to hear what David Brin has to say.
I find him to be a very intelligent and insightful observer, as well as being a very good author.
The next channel is Candy Rat Records.
Now I mentioned before that I have a strong interest in acoustic finger style guitar.
And Candy Rat Records is a purely guitar-oriented record label and puts out recordings, CDs mostly,
by some of the most prominent of the finger style guitar players.
I mentioned Andy McKee's channel in another episode, and Andy McKee is on the Candy Rat label.
So this keeps me up on what's going on.
They will frequently do things like put out a video for a new song that one of their artists has done.
Or sometimes they'll have someone put on a concert.
So I can get an hour and a half of music come through as a streaming concert on this channel.
Then there's a couple of car-related ones.
Car care, plues, and car help corner.
And the reason I subscribe to both of these is that the car that I'm driving right now is a Mazda 3.
It's a 2012 model, and it has 250,000 miles on it.
Well, it is still going great, but at some point you've got to look at, say, okay, 13 years old, 250,000 miles.
It ain't going to last forever.
So what I've been trying to do is kind of keep up on what's going on with cars.
And what I'm looking at, whenever I get my next car, it was to be either electric or hybrid.
Because I think we need to start moving away from burning up all this carbon and destroying the environment.
But I didn't know a whole lot.
I think I know more now than I knew when I first subscribed to these channels.
If I had to make a decision today, I would probably go with a hybrid as being more practical.
And that's largely because the charging infrastructure in the US is not quite where it really needs to be,
although it is getting better, and I've done shows about all of that.
But that's what I'm looking at now.
But if my car holds out another three or four years, which is entirely possible,
because so far it's doing great, the situation might be different then.
So I'm just following these channels so that I can stay up to date on what's going on there.
So this is a hook up for Hacker Public Radio signing off,
and there's always encouraging you to support free software.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
