Episode: 4211
Title: HPR4211: Rapid Fire 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4211/hpr4211.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:26:05

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,200 and 11 from Monday the 23rd of September 2024.
Today's show is entitled Rapid Fire One.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 18 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Neurodiverse Movies DIY Liquid Conductive Paint, Cold Hands Feet, Linux
CPU Info Apps.
Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host Operator.
So this one is going to be a live episode working backwards from my list is getting long
in the tooth.
So I have probably 50 HPR episodes and I'm starting from the bottom.
So depending on what the show does look like, you'll know whether to skip this one or
skip ahead or whatever.
First thing I'm talking about is autism spectrum and TB and movies.
So if you're a Neurodiverse and you want people to understand what it's like, what comes
to mind to me specifically is more recently the Sheldon series and on more of the extreme
side or the past ADHD traditional is the professor of his professor who basically says things
that's not, you know, it's out of turn or over sharing or whatever.
And then Sheldon pretty much just says what's on his mind and that's what ends up happening
over sharing or making offending people but not really understanding what you're saying.
So that's a good place to start.
Another one is let's see, the Strupters 2021, that one's a good feel good movie, feel
looking for like a feel good movie for people.
That's a good one.
An older one is called ADD in loving it.
It's more of a documentary and it's kind of more traditional older 80s almost style.
I don't know when it actually came out.
That one's pretty good.
There's a few of them online out there.
There's a BBC one called, I mean, I don't know what it's called but it's pretty good.
Basically there's a woman in there and she drinks like a cup of coffee today and then
her kids have ADD and she's, you know, just decides to take medication and then she's
like on her way to work.
She's like, I feel all jittery like well you probably didn't stop drinking coffee so
now you're on, you know, you know, 12 cups of coffee instead of six.
So anyways, that's a good one.
Ron's gone wrong is a good one for kids.
I think that one mixed kind of touches me in a way that, you know, how a kid feels or
how young child feels when they're growing up with ADHD.
I will say things like the behavior wheel.
I'll put these in the show notes.
But that's a good one to go, neurodiversity affirming practice is a good resource.
But under the more TV come back to more TVs, let's see, Trevor Noah under pressure in
the ADHD.
That was a good one.
Very quickly, you know, get a feel for what it's like, let's see, Ron's gone wrong.
Oh, it's living with ADHD, BBC documentary, that was pretty old.
It's really good.
It's got all of the place.
It's got the feel good.
It's got the parents that, you know, need to learn a little bit more and have some opportunities
to figure things out.
There's some other ones out there like drugging our kids.
That one's kind of the controversial side of it.
Let's see.
ADD understanding the superpowers within.
I think that's that doctor guy that I love, though, he's an older, heavier set guy.
Actually, let me, let me click it and see which one it is.
I think this, that was a YouTube video that's for free.
Other than that, no, this is something else.
So anyways, that's pretty much it.
So we'll move on from there.
There's, that's pretty much it.
There's a couple of spectrum based ones, autism ones, or I guess, that are pretty decent,
but I don't remember them and they were not really quick and easy to digest for people
that don't understand it.
But I would say my top pick would be the disruptors because it's very positive.
And then my second one would be, I don't know, it's kind of, it's mainly positive
but anyways, I'll move on.
Sorry.
We're already four minutes in.
So that's that.
That one's more or less done.
And if, you know, anybody wants me to expand on these, whatever.
Carbon powder.
Now I made, this is, this is so old now.
Carbon powder I made out of batteries so you can make liquid, liquid DIY, DIY liquid,
conductor, paint.
You can buy a conductive paint, it's very expensive, but you can make your own out of like
old batteries or something and there's other chemicals and batteries that you don't want
to, and then it's like the heavy metal batteries.
It's, it's not cadmium, it's some other chemical and it's this black hard core and you,
you know, I did four of my batteries and I crushed it up and I tried to, one of the ideas
I was going to make gloves that you could, you know, touch, use to touch and then just
kind of have fun with the paint.
And then I realized it's probably not a good idea to have, you know, try and easy and
battery chemicals on inside of the glove.
But you can make your own with, there's videos online, but my experience with it is,
I realized that the way the phones work, it's a little bit different.
So like if you put the conductive glove on and then you put the phone on the table and
then you try to touch the glove without having grounded or whatever with the phone, it's
different.
So if you've ever tried to put your phone on a table and then try and use it, it's a
little bit different or if you've tried to, whatever.
So it's weird, conductive, I didn't really figure it out, but when I finally got rid
of the liquid stuff or the powder, I realized that, oh, the reason it didn't have a problem
and it wasn't working is because I wasn't grounded properly or whatever, you have to
be touching the phone essentially for it to, you know, more than one contact point kind
of it.
I couldn't really figure it out.
And there's some higher math involved with that one, that was an interesting experiment.
Old hands and feet, for me, pedaling desk, wearing nice slippers.
There is probably some of the best slippers I've ever had.
They are, I can't remember the name of the brand, a North Face, I think they're North Face
slippers and they're almost like shoes and they're relatively cheap, I mean, they're
expensive, like 60 bucks, 80 bucks, something like that.
That works for my feet when it starts getting cold.
I had circulation issues back, it's just not enough exercise, not eating right foods maybe.
So my hands are still relatively cold.
I just have to make sure my core stays nice and warm.
I'm wearing a fleece jacket here at work, so I don't freeze it at, excuse me, I'm trying
it.
Try not to yod.
Sorry.
It's early in the morning, not some of these out.
So I'll wear fleece, make sure your core is warm, make sure your feet are warm and
your head is warm, if you have to wear a beanie and slippers, whatever, it's like what
is it, 20% of your temperature is in your head and feet.
So if you can get a nice beanie, not like, not whatever one, not the acrylic ones or whatever,
you can get a mostly wool one that's not super uncoverable.
I bought a decent one, it's very warm, I can only wear it, but very low.
So that's kind of hands cold feet, let's do that one, let's see, go back, where did I,
if I exes out where they end up, sorry, I'm looking at where I've done it, I don't think
I'll just do some exes here.
So that one's done, other things about cold hands feet, caffeine, restricts your things
and actually makes you cold cooler warmer or colder restricts your blood vessels and stuff,
standing up, going exercise, I do the stairs here at the office, so that helps if I start
getting cold, I'll do my exercises early, going up and down stairs, get that blood pumping,
as crazy and as silly as it is, jumping jacks, I do 60 jumping jacks and then I stop and
that gets my heart pumping and basically gets me warm no matter what, but it's kind of
silly to do that in public, but I look like an idiot and I'll do it in the stairwell
if I have to, but if I'm cold and I'm like, man, I'm cold and then I'll, you know, an hour
or 30 minutes will go by and I'm still cold, I'll just be like, forget it, I'm going to
go in the stairwell or I'm just going to do jumping jacks wherever and that gives you at
least an hour or two hours, if not, so it's that getting that circulation going is what
helps.
All right, let's see, what else we got here?
Top and friends, Ellis open file, proc, bashtop, until GPU.
So this is basically understanding in a Linux environment, what kind of options there are
to figure out what is going on with the computer with the, you know, status of the computer,
the usage of the computer, all kinds of other good stuff, I'll see if I remember, so this
is going to be a larger one where we at, we're at nine minutes, so trying to remember my
passwords.
Nope, wrong server, that's wrong server, okay.
So some of these, a lot of these you need root to get access to the status of, you know,
devices and hardware, Phoenix, it's like Phoenix info, something like that, Phoenix test suite
is really good, that just kind of just a generic dumps everything you need to know about
your system, pretty much tells you as much as it can, was there's a diagnostics, I think,
but it's got an easy tutorial info, all tests, test usage, test possibility dependencies.
So there's tons of, tons of stuff with Phoenix tests, it's Phoenix test, test, test suite
is the binary.
That's one that gives you like generic information, or information about your, it's like MS info
or DX Diag, but for Linux.
So that one's a good one, I use H top, as an easy to look at, um, bash top, or bash
PUI top, BPI top, I think is, yeah, bash pie top is a better, a cooler UI, I don't, I
use it for, because it shows network, pretty much everything, it shows you memory, disk,
process and network.
So it's a little bit busy for me, but if something's going on with the system, I'll run
bash pie top and be like, what the hell is going on?
And usually it's processor, but sometimes it's network or, you know, maybe, um, for whatever
region to log is running, I don't know why that's not supposed to be running, that might
explain some things, see, there we go, I just used it to figure something out, um, so
yeah, I need to fix that, let me put a note, fix, that's a torrent client it, I serve
up archives of, what's that show, Beakman's world, so, and that doesn't need to be running.
So anyways, H top, top, of course, is all legacy, um, see, there's SS, I don't even remember
SS, SS is, um, socket something, let's do your main page SS, I don't even, I don't even
know what it is, another utility to investigate sockets, yeah, SS is good, um, the other one
I use is all as open file, or, um, Nets that, and it's L, LDP, LDP, ER, ED, something like
that, yeah, Nets that dash, LDP, LDP, ED, I think, I'm probably missing one, but it'll
tell you the socket and what's the process that's listening on it, that kind of helps when
you're troubleshooting, yeah, this is not it, nope, no, this is it, pretty close.
So that one's good for stuff, as far as networking goes, there's, um, of course there's Nets
that, but for networking, I usually use, um, in top, or no, in top is something else, um,
for networking, I use, I have top, I think, yeah, I have top, is it easy one to look at
never, you know, it'll, it'll show you the, it'll resolve the port names, it'll resolve
the host names, and kind of give you an idea, okay, well, that's, that service looks like,
you know, uh, that service looks like, I think you do a dash P, or a dash something, you
pass parameters to that one, and it'll tell you the ports, and with the ports, it'll
tell you the service, dash big P, dash big P, so it shows you the ports, I map, once
are random ports, because that's, looks like, um, it looks like the torrent client, 30,000s,
wow, that's a lot of changes, anyways, um, what else we got?
First up, I've told you proc, so in Linux, most Linux distributions, you've got LS, um,
proc, and then there's a bunch of process, by process ID, um, CMD line, CMD, LIN, is a
good file to look at, other than that, there's not a whole lot of information in proc, but
I'll use it to look for, if the command is running, and I can't figure out what process
it belongs to, based on using traditional methods, I'll get the proc folder and do a
grip, and just look for, whatever string I'm looking for, like, you know, torrent, or
whatever, um, Intel DQ, that's part of my top script, so which top, um, I have a top
script that runs a bunch of stuff, whoop, that just pressed it, so the first one, it
runs CMUX for the new session, I went to, uh, B top, it was BASH top, the other one,
net hogs, um, so, uh, run B top by itself, net hogs, net hogs, dash V, three, dash
P, I don't even know net hogs, I don't know, I have top, something about I have top is
not great, so I switched to net hogs, um, something was missing, net hogs will give you
better information than I have top, if I remember correctly, but it's more like, uh, I think
it's got a little bit more features, and I can't remember which, I was using, uh, for
whatever reason, so net hogs, the dash V, which is, I guess, verbose three, and then dash
P, which I guess is reports, um, Intel GPU top, if you have an Intel GPU, you know, you
can use that to figure out how much, uh, Chuchin, your Chuchin, it's 4% just idling, which
is 0.01 watts, so that's interesting, uh, let's see what we got, the other one I like
to use is, that's pretty much it, net hogs, dash top, Intel GPU, with that, those three
commands I'll put in a window, um, and I'm using tmux, and then I'll adjust the size, select
pain, t0, resize pain, select, select dash pain, space, dash t, t, space zero, and I guess
that does something, it selects the first pain, and then makes it 24, a long or wide, um,
so I don't know, and then attach session, which I don't know what that means either, so,
let me open this in the show notes for you guys, sleep 8, you know, this is what is this,
showing, okay, let me just put the whole thing in there, all right, we can tap, put down
the show notes, okay, all right, so we're probably at 15 minutes now, and let's see,
I'll do Android, this last one, Android apps 2020, actually no, I'll, I'll spare y'all
and cut another one, so this will be the next one, I'll go over Android, status k,
bark, uh, front door, mobile app, so anyways, cool cool, y'all have a good one and keep
it poppin', as they say, 20 years ago, you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio does work, today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like
yourself, if you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to
find out how easy it leads, hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our syncs.net, on this otherwise status, today's show is released
on their creative commons, attribution 4.0 international license.
