Episode: 4169
Title: HPR4169:  HPR New Years Eve Show 2023 - 24 ep 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4169/hpr4169.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:48:43

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4169 for Thursday, the 25th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled H.P. or New Year's Eve Show 2023-24-4.
It is hosted by Ham Kimagoo and is about 120 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the H.P. our community comes together to converse.
Yeah, these delivery apps now have used them as well for food or takeaways or whatever.
No, I'm a big believer in privacy in a lot of stuff like that, so I don't do a lot
of that Uber or skip the dishes or whatever delivery app.
Yeah, no, I don't do a lot of those.
I'm old-school.
I call a telephone number and you know, either you deliver it, I'll get it up,
but I don't, I don't do the apps.
Yeah, I don't know quite now because we got, we got, we got, we got Uber Eats over here.
Yeah, well, we deliver Eats from London, originally.
He's a living, we've got Deliveroo, Uber Eats and Justi,
and they're like the three main delivery apps companies,
and they're some smaller ones around, I guess, somewhere.
And maybe you can do a grocery shop and get through the supermarket directly.
I mean, there's an option as well these days, but I've had some problems with all three of these,
and I'm going to say problems.
I mean, just don't worry, I don't refund you, and they refuse to give you refunds
and stuff when it should be refunding you.
Buy items that you never got and things like that.
And I've been reading a lot of views online, and they do it to other people too,
and they're all a bit scammy, they're all a bit conny,
they're kind of like con men in some ways, I think, sometimes.
More than $90,000.
You're supposed to refund people apparently,
because you pay, but you never got the items.
So they sort of, they find a way around that,
or we have to maybe go to your bank and dispute it.
And it's like, one, well, I started doing Uber Eats again,
and I've got a new board membership,
and then I ordered a delivery on,
well, I had it on Christmas Eve,
and it actually came on Christmas Day that one,
but he went off with it, canceled the order, said delivered.
I complained, they refunded later,
but the previous Wednesday, it's done a shock,
and I had a big order, and some items never turned up.
But then because I didn't report, say,
tell them in 48 hours apparently,
they guarantee the orthographic response was like,
no, we're not going to refund you,
and it's like, what, I'm down enough money,
and I had a problem like that with,
yeah, things like that,
when they try and get out of refunding,
well, they get silly about it,
and I'm waiting for an order from Uber Eats yesterday
that went wrong as well,
because they didn't send a driver out for good two hours or so,
or an hour in the clock, the shop was about to close as well,
and had a big enough order, it was a grocery shop,
and they didn't send a second,
I remember, I only sent the second driver out,
I was throwing the shop up,
but they'd actually close a shop at nine o'clock,
but they would have done, so he came and it was shut,
and now I'm waiting to see if I get a refund,
or credit, or something, that one as well,
a little more.
Well, yeah, I drove Uber and Lyft for about three years,
and when I started, it was good money,
and by the time I finished, it wasn't.
It just, if you add in what you're paying for gas,
and what you're paying for vehicle repairs,
even if you have an excellent vehicle,
you can't even make a minimum wage.
What's gas in your neck of the woods?
Is it water? I'm sorry.
Zygola, yeah, it's double cheap.
Just call me Moss.
Well, that's all right.
It's pretty cheap as gas goes.
The local supermarket gas station is 269 a gallon.
So, 269, yeah.
I gotta do some conversions, I'm a,
worth of savings, I gotta put it in.
Multi-life by 1.25, and then drive gallons in the litres.
Or your, your, your, your driver to an attack c-fantil,
but, and, and they employ a lot of,
people from other countries here.
I think not always, but, yeah,
seems to be quite a lot that've come in,
that I wanted to live in Ducasia in a job of some sort,
so they start to ring things like Uber Eats,
or the delivery apps or taxis, but that's one thing right from a bad head, but yeah I think
they don't get paid that well and that's why, especially Uber Eats maybe, that's why they
assess on tipping, it says, you know, like I do a Uber Eats all day and it will say, uh, tip
you drive the first, it's like, you haven't even come yet, you can tip them before they even come,
or it suggests to do afterwards, and we don't really tip in the UK unless, well we can
do, but it's not like you're up for certain restaurants, you'd probably tip there really, but
although the problem is, as a customer is, when these companies refuse refunds, which is what
you're talking about, and you get really stupid about it, even though by law apparently they're
supposed to refund and give money back from missing items, but they can really, they mess
around a lot of people, or every now and again, there's an order that goes wrong, there's orders that
go okay, and then suddenly there's an order that goes wrong and there's problems, and I'm talking
with free delivery apps here as well, free of the main delivery apps and they've had problems with,
so like all free before basically, because we've got, we've got Liberoo, which is from London
originally, I don't know if that's over in the America, well it's, we've got, and we've got, um,
Just Eats, yeah, who might have heard of that one, I think, and we've got Uber Eats, yeah.
Two toasts, we're at 94 Canadian cents per liter. Lucky you, I've just paid a buck 39
a liter. Gas, or petrol as we say over here, or petrol diesel, yeah. You go to a petrol station,
that's what we say over here. Gas is actually, um, what comes out, what heats you flat up and
does, and maybe you're stove over here, so I know that we say him Britain, it's interesting,
man, isn't it, with differences of word, word sometimes, true, and I think the Canadian guy,
really, even though you understood him, I've heard it, but really, I would be arrested if I tried
to lay the flag. Really, you're under a common goal, can't you encounter, so, we say you're kind
of linked with us to some extent, still, even though you're not, well, good to some extent,
so I think you know about petrol and diesel as well, we hope you do. I guess so, I do, yeah.
Yeah, Canada's kind of funny because we talk sometimes we talk Celsius, sometimes we talk
Fahrenheit, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sometimes we talk about it. Yeah, I know,
that's another one, CNF, isn't it? Delta is Fahrenheit, or somebody says it's like 70, 120F
maybe, and you're like, well, I'll not see, okay, so that's 120C, that'd be nice and hot, wouldn't
it? Cool. Yeah. So, Masha, I want to ship some of that gas up this way, or the shipping cost would be
more than the difference in what you're paying. Let's see here, we are paying 35 great Britain
Pence per liter for petrol, so that's in, well, either I can't hear him or he can't hear me or
we're broken down again. No, no, so I'm still hearing you. Okay, 35 Pence per liter by UK
prices. Yeah, it's been nothing. To me, it means nothing because yeah, I just don't know that one.
Well, English currency is even weirder than US currency. US has metric currency.
Canada has metric currency. Great Britain does not. Yeah, we can't figure it out how can we
expect our politicians to do it. Well, if great Britain is going to complain about US not using
the metric system very well, fix your currency. Oh, the hate war started.
Let's see, Masha, I'm half Swedish as well. So, yes, we have miles over here on the road, miles per
hour, you know, signs are miles per hour, but in Europe, in the mainland, they use kit
kilometers per hour. And I don't know which is best so ready, but how will I know what that
really is? What's really interesting in the US judges gas mileage in miles for gallon,
the Canada judges it in 100, 100 liters, you know, kilo meters per 100 liters.
So, so in Canada, your gas mileage lower means better. If US higher means better.
I am. And then I just found out today that Florida isn't the land of freedom that I thought it was.
You got your come-up and so on that one. I did, sir, compared to what I consider true to land
and I thought we were bad, but then apparently, Florida is not as great either.
Well, think how Canada would be under Pierre Polavier and you're getting close to where Florida is.
You know what, though? Oh, son of a gun. Now we're bringing up politics on HBO.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. Yeah, let's not go there. Let's just not go there.
Like I said, I am very familiar with Canada. My favorite football team is the Ottawa Red Blacks.
Nice. Nice. That's almost a whole town team for me. I even got Red Blacks hoodie.
Jesus, do you want a sponsorship? Do you want to you want to move up or what?
No money for that. Barely get the hoodie. The hoodie is really great, though, although the
stitching on the on the emblem came loose. I had to take it to a shop to have it restitched.
You know, but hoodies from Canada are about twice as thick as hoodies in the US. I bought a
Linux is everywhere hoodie from what's his name that does all the destination Linux shows.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And that thing is so white. It's barely thicker than a t-shirt.
Really? We're cold up here, though. We need that thicker. We need that thicker wool. Oh, yeah.
Oh, this year's different. This year's different. I just still green grass on the lawn.
Haha. Global warning is come to Canada. Think of what Greenland would be like if things get worse.
Be interesting. Be green. I wasn't going to go there, but you said it.
Iceland will have to change your name.
We're still in politics. It just doesn't sound like it.
Oh, snap. No, literally, if I were in Canada, it would definitely be NDP.
Ah, I got NDP is too middle middle of the, er, er, too flip floppy for me.
Well, the Green Party can't get their crap together. Why I agree with that 100. I don't know.
I think I go polyev though. I honestly probably polyev. Oh, not me, man.
Haha. He is definitely the worst of the right wing. Even, yeah, I, I, if I had a vote between
Trump and polyvere, I would stay home. I'd just stay home. You know, I think that's a media thing.
I don't consider him Trump level. I think he's maybe a step low Trump, but I'm just like
if he wants to be instead of a whole full-fledged clone. Yeah, do you guys see? I just told
liberal party for me is just they're controlling. Like you can't say nothing with getting in trouble.
Yeah, you got to start any official meeting with me out about the legislature that you have to
vote with your party. You don't have any option about voting from your conscience or from your
beliefs. You have to vote the party mine or you're kicked out of the party. Yeah, or you have
nothing. Yeah, exactly. No, I, yeah, I don't know, man. It's a one times or six, a hundred times.
Yeah. Well, look at poor England. I mean, the liberals are even right wing.
It's a bad thing. You have something to say to that one? No, what's your call?
If you think Kira Starmer is any more, any less radical than half of the Republicans,
then you're not paying attention. Well, we've got conservatives that need to go out. We need to
go. Well, yeah, but Labour is basically carrying water for the Conservatives for the most part.
And then we've got Labour, which is supposed to represent the sort of working man that
on the, you know, not as a best job. And maybe people
Cregniffe or wrong, isn't Labour party referred to a more, how do I say that, less democratic system?
All I know is that the Labour leaders can't even get together and be on the side of Labour.
Yeah, of course. I mean, yep. Labour is like working man benefits sort of and
did all the Democrats somewhere in between. And I've got a green party. I mean,
that's like the environment party, but the thing with them is that they've got some great ideas
and everything, but a chance that they can get in power like the general election is just like not
going to happen. Well, it's a lot better than the Green Party in Canada and the non-existent
Green Party in the US. Yeah, because in the US you got what? You got Republic
Democrats and Independent Rights. You got Republicans, Democrats and other idiots, yes.
So this is the UK altogether. So yeah, spits up a little bit in some ways with each country having
the room, um, government, some extent as well. Well, the candidate shows up who is neither
Republican or Democrat. The press instantly labels him as not electable.
This is very true. It's very true. At least in Canada, you got five different parties going there.
Well, yeah, that's Canada, but let's see, America, you got Trump, yeah, or I've heard that you've
got banned from being able to become president again in two, at least two states so far.
Well, Biden is not the greatest president the US has ever had, but compared to Trump,
it's not even comparable. You don't have the issues. He is keeping some of the progressive
banner bloating, although not all of it. He is still citing, uh, on the side of genocide in the
Middle East, but he's trying to get them to back up and do a little bit less genocide.
I'm just going to go and sell from here, my friend. We're bringing up the Middle East.
We're just going to go sell the whole conversation. Get blow out the planet and start over, yeah.
Well, poor HPR, it's never heard anything so, so, so, so rancid.
I do not consider myself a radical leftist. I consider myself a little bit to the right of, uh,
AOC, but not much. I'm not sure that Marxism works any better than capitalism. I am sure that people
deserve better than they're than we are getting. I grew at that light statement at a hundred percent.
AOC, I think a little crazy, but again, opinions. Yeah, I guess I'm a little right right to center
as well. I'll put it. Well, the problem is that everything has been shifted so part of the right
that the center is very far right. The American, the American left comes to Canada, comes to Canada,
everything shifted left, left hardcore. Oh, really? Oh, that's how it is right now. Yeah,
it is a hardcore left government we have. Yeah. Well, like I said, I've already put myself in
the same boat with Rod Meat Singh. So, uh, I'm judged not. I'm judged not.
You might say I'm a little bit more educated than most Americans are on world politics.
You sound fairly educated about it. It's good. It's good. I'll just, if you heard that burp,
I just, I just drank one of your American brand Miller highlights. Oh, you shouldn't drink
piss water like that. Well, I know. And most Canadians tell me the same thing. Well, on the other
hand, Canadian beer isn't considerably better, but no, no, no, yeah, no, I generally drink the more
micro brew stuff, but this gives me the burps and I like burps. Okay. Well, you know,
LeBat said Moosehead isn't much better or worse than Miller. I have trouble finding a good beer
because for me, everyone, even the micro brews love hops. Yep. Hops are not what make beer beer.
Hops are what sort of make it shipable. This is why IPA got popular because when the IPA got
to India, it was still drinkable, at least as much as it was. It doesn't break down with the hops
in it. I prefer a more multi beer myself and there's very hard to find. Yeah, I'm more of a hard
liquor man, if my night's going that way, but you know, I'm keeping it light tonight.
Yeah, I do a fair shot of whiskey every now and then. I've got a one and three quarter
liter bottle next to my chair. We also have this one. We have this fun thing that there's a company
that just came out that makes something called a chocolate teeny that literally is made with
what they call not standard orange wine. Not standard orange wine. Not standard orange wine is
wine that was made with the grape peels. Really? Yeah, basically red wine is made with the peels,
white wine is made without the peels, but it's a special grape. And for the red wine,
whereas the orange wine is made from just any old grape and leave the peel on. And I don't know what
makes it not standard, but when you add the chocolate and cream to it, it actually tastes like a good
mixed drink. And the alcohol level is around 18%. So yay. Yep. Yep. For my neck of the woods, we're
more of a are we making it with tatos or corn this year? Yeah. Hey, I'm in Eastern Tennessee. We
know all about yo, I did try some of your Tennessee shine. It's not too terrible. It's not too
shabby at all. Yeah, just just dumping some oak barrels for a while and it'll be real whiskey.
Yeah, that's the whole difference. They don't age it and they don't put it in barrels.
The color of whiskey comes from the oak. Ah, the flavor of whiskey comes from the oak.
Otherwise, it's just moonshine. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I went into the, well, in my province,
it's all federally regulated, right? If you want to buy booze like liquor, you have to go to,
what we call them, assacuse. Yeah. And federally, right? So I went in because I wanted a bottle of
Irish whiskey. And remember that show, China moonshines? God, I can't remember the name.
But it was a walk in and they had some of their mason jars of it in our assacuse. And I was like,
I got to try that. Yeah. Well, I also keep a jar of telemordue around.
Good stuff for wife. Telemordue is one of the older and more famous lines of Irish whiskey.
Okay. Yeah. I was drinking tea, but that's what I was going for. Oh, Jameson is mouthwash compared
to telemordue. I'll write that down. I know there are some Jameson people who peel the other way.
But that's tough. This is my tea talking. You know, the first amendment writes and all that.
Yep. Yeah. I'm so lucky to have that one.
Well, we've just wrote it quite a bit since 2016 when a particular person who has already been
mentioned claims that the media is the enemy of the people. You know what road we're going down.
Well, if you were Canadian, you some of us see the dark Canadian broadcast and corporation are
a fair CBC kind of we have the same feeling about this. Well, I listen to CBC rather often and I
have the CBC app on my phone. Really? I am. Okay. Respect you. I mean, they may not buy
get for my news is called ground news. Is that the one that's like a blend of news?
It basically gets news from all the sources and it rates the sources where they are on the
spectrum and will tell you what what site has a blind spot not paying attention in this news
item and what site isn't and whether the news is accurate or not accurate. Okay. And actually,
if you pay for the premium version, they even will point out what those inaccuracies are.
So I know CBC is for me personally, I'm not a fan of. But it didn't look good for them whenever
the Liberals came in power because the first attacks funded, but then also the federal government
Trudeau give them an additional $360 million. And that's and that's when I find that media source
kind of went anything but the liberal party is is Trump. Well, Trudeau's party Trudeau himself
is sort of a cross between neoliberal and progressive. And yeah, yeah, you never know which way
he's going to go, whether he's going for the people or for the corporations, you never know.
Oh my god, Moss, we got to stop. We're going to we're going to pollute it all. We got to stop.
This is free and open speech. Yeah. Yeah. It's a start of war. We have to get within the range
of loving moms in each other. Oh my god, someone else, please say something.
Are you telling me to shop and go away? No, no, no, no, no, I'm just saying God, there's got to be
some other opinions. There's only you and me right now and we're going to cripple something.
Well, Sebastian's still here. He's just apparently keeping his nose out of it.
It's like North America. I wonder where Joe went. Yeah, Joe and I are pretty much in agreement on
most things. Hey, how about him Yankees? Uh, you calling me a Yankees one?
I guess not. Never mind.
No, you wanted to talk about the royals or the athletics or something.
Hey, how about the Dodgers spending more money on one player than
16 other teams have read for an entire annual salary?
So, uh, hey, hey, I'm all about Japanese baseball.
Just played in Los Angeles. Anyway, um,
but anyway, yes, some places just go into the new year if anybody is interested.
Yes, we did. Who made it in the new year?
So without looking at time and date, you know, it's well, well, well, Finland,
Finland, yes. Oh, okay. The two hours ahead of the UK. Happy New Year, Finland.
Ukraine, actually, as well. Yeah, Ukraine. Well, they need a happy New Year.
Yes. Two hours ahead. I think the chess republic, as well.
Well, that also would take some luck here, with it.
Either way. Yeah, yeah, parts of your work. Yeah.
And maybe some parts of Greece and maybe, I think maybe like Turkey.
And I think maybe Israel or Egypt or something like that, maybe as well.
Yeah, Egypt, probably. And then some other places are probably missed.
But back in the early 2000s, I had a screen saver on my computer called AutoMax.
And that thing actually had a map of the world and you could see what's where the light was,
where the day was, what the time zones were, it was really cool.
Of course, you needed a screen saver, because otherwise all your screen got burned in.
Yeah, I got something like running like that because I do the amateur radio stuff.
I running on my deviant laptop, where yeah, I can see where the sun is.
Oh, so no, I don't have opinions on anything. You may have noticed.
No, nothing. It's a matter of question. I'm more familiar with the American side of this,
the Canadian side of this. Can you run to your local corner store and
graphian beer or liquor per both? I do. That's my question.
Can you run to your local corner store by beer, liquor or both?
I guess that's it. All right, gentlemen, I'm going to mute out for a couple minutes.
I got a question or someone that he did. He asked it. Maybe I didn't hear it.
Not sure if it's done. He was asking if you can just go to the store and get beer, wine,
or liquor, or do you have to go to a special store for that?
That's an interesting question. Well, yeah, in Britain,
generally you can go into any shop and buy beer alcohol as long as you're very
brating or whatever, or it might go ID. But why I found out, although in Sweden, on the other hand,
no, you can't. You can't. You have to go to, there might be some pub somewhere,
you have to go to a government run shop, basically. It's by actual alcohol.
It's not in the normal shops now. Yeah, berries here from state to state. In Tennessee,
we can buy beer and wine at the grocery store, but we have to go to a special liquor store
to get other types of alcohol. Pay my mumbles. Paying up. All right,
I'm going to mute out. I got to run. I got to run to the corner store.
Go get toasty. Yeah. Oh, believe me, I'm in Canada. I will be toasty later to see if
he has indeed. Yeah. Right, anybody here now? Anybody here now? Any buddy here now? Anybody here
now? A little bit of graph. Is there anybody here? Is there anybody here? Why is it quite at the most?
Oh, well, um, so it's 23-08-10, which meant that those two were in 20-24.
But not us. Not the Canary Islands either. They were just going to Spain. Yes,
Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium, Netherlands. Actually, not Portugal, because Portugal are in
the same time as the UK. Iceland is also currently in the same time as the UK. It's not
not just yet, but most of you are paddlerwise. Sweden, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Italy,
Spain, Greece, or Parmecia, Greece, but Spain, it depends on the islands.
At all that end in New Year, 2024, and Joe was here, and Joe was just left, it seems, but
yep, Chris, Chris, are you here? Whatever that is. You can speak, um, well, I don't know, if you go
out like an internal laptop, microphone, like I do, then you can speak on that as well,
or you can throw an in on something, I think maybe, as well, I'm not sure, or maybe not with this.
No, I should work, should not plug it out, put it back in again, change pulse, or do the same,
or maybe not, I don't know. Anybody around? This is not the party we had last year.
It's only because you were late. I wasn't late. I'm still alive.
I may be getting old, but I'm not late yet.
Oh, well, that can happen. So how are things up around Ottawa?
Mars, I guess you're talking to me at this point. I guess so.
No, things are quite around here. Someone want to just got an invite to a party that started at
630. I was like, it was 630. Mm-hmm. Way too early. Yeah, it's 30 here.
Yeah, I was like, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not going to that party at 630. Maybe I'll show up at 9,
9, 10 o'clock if I go, but I don't have that same gumption I used to have to go that long.
I used to go to a lot of science fiction conventions, and we'd stay up playing music until
four or five in the morning, and now we all go to bed at midnight or one. Yeah.
And of course, I don't have the money to go to a lot of conventions anymore, either.
I contacted a con in Detroit that I'd never heard of, except through a book I just read,
called Penguin Con, that is a combination of open source and science fiction.
And I haven't heard back from them yet, but, you know, if they want me, I might be able to make it
as April 26 to 28, I think. Are you writing or speaking or just attending? I am a filter. I play music.
Yes. I also am a podcaster in sentence open source convention, and all my podcaster open source,
I should be welcome. I think I played as a harmonica, but I can't play inside because my dog
house loved and the neighbors get angry with me. Oh, I got I got a new guitar from my last
birthday. It's an electronic guitar that is made to sound acoustic, and it's called the next G.
It's by any music in China. Okay. And it's an all carbon fiber body. It's got a speaker built in
where there where you normally have a pick guard is actually a sound speaker. It runs on
Bluetooth that has apps for your phone comes with a microphone that you can run through the speaker
of the guitar. You can also even use it for karaoke if you want to. They've got a function that you
play music from your phone through through the guitar and it mutes out the vocal part. Okay.
It's an incredible box. The first generation is now on sale because it originally came out
899 euros, and I got mine for about $480 because that month they released the second generation,
which is 899 euros. But the new one for 899 euros has more stuff. It comes complete with a
charging stand. It comes with a switch box that you can use to do looping and all kinds of stuff.
But it's still just an acoustic guitar without a sound box.
Can I just play your piano? I was going to say it sounds good because I lied kind of. I said
I played harp. I also have a 62 key MIDI. And yeah, so yeah. I know. I have a lot of guitars.
I have a lot of guitars. I also have a violin. I don't play. I've got an auto harp that needs strings.
I've got a Irish lap harp that is really nice. Someone just gave it to me and I looked it up. I
could not buy one per under $1100. I can say. Yeah. So anyhow, I have this wonderful little
Anya next G guitar. It has regular strings on it. There are even D'Dario XR strings. Oh, I
haven't dropped D. Okay. And you turn it on and it does this.
And then it sounds just like a guitar.
So standard pickups in it like to be on electric or what? Yeah, you don't even see the pickups.
I don't know where they have the pickups. Like I say, it's a solid carbon fiber body.
We're not on video. So or I'm not on Jitsi anyhow. So I can't really show it to you. But
you can look it up. They have them on Amazon. The Anya next G, any XG. Yeah. Yeah, I bought
I'm not lying. I bought six guitars and I sold six guitars.
Well, I have three guitars for sale and another one that I'm keeping in addition to the XG
the next G. Nobody's buying. I don't know why. I have really nice guitars that sound really good
and play really nicely. And I'm selling them bloody cheap, but nobody's buying. I had one
cool guitar in my life. I still didn't never could never learn. I guess it takes more time
and I never put the time in. But I had a flying V. Gibson flying V. Yeah. I don't have expensive
guitars. I just have good ones. I got it from a friend who needed some help.
Yeah, my best guitar is an Ibanez. It's a Chinese made Ibanez. Yep. It's art wood. It's
open for mahogany as a plywood. So like only one layer of it is mahogany. But it looks beautiful.
It sounds beautiful. It plays beautiful. And I'm trying to sell it for I think $353.25
something like that. Yeah, yeah. I've been Ibanez one time. It was an Ibanez
golf. You know, the big black metal guitar. This is just an acoustic, but it's a gorgeous one. Anyhow,
here I'm turning the guitar off. You got to listen to this too.
And it has a charging stand that sits in as long as you have a USB-C plugged into the stand.
Your guitar stays charged. Yep. And it actually has a light on it in a very fancy shaped e-down
between the tail and the bridge. And it it flashes. It pulses on and off. And you can even have
it pulsing in different colors. So what's going on? I believe you said Tennessee. What's
what's happening around there? It's Tennessee. Does things happen? But yeah,
I guess depends who you ask really. Yeah. Well, it's it's the weather is great and the people
are stupid. That's most places. Not as bad as Alabama, but still. I live in Alabama for 11 months
and there were only three people in town. I could even have a conversation with and most of them
were too busy making money off of the idiots. You know, take some to make some. Yeah. Well,
you know, they said, you know, they say about a fool and of money. The old slogan of fool and
of money are soon parted. Yeah. Very true. Well, if you're if you're one of the very few non-fools
in the area, then you can get rich pretty easily. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not I'm not jumping down my
southern brother in strokes. I'm Canadian. Y'all kill me. Stay north. We can't reach you.
So I don't know. I live about 20 miles outside of Knoxville. Yeah. Okay.
Knoxville itself is a democratic city, but the county is Republican and 85 percent of the state
is Republican. And we have a super super majority of Republicans in the in the state house.
And they can do any darn thing they want to. And it doesn't matter what's good for the people.
They do what's good for them. I mean, yeah, it's all about what's good for them, right?
It doesn't matter what party you're what parties empower or who you're aligned with. It's good for
the party that's in power. That's that's about it. Well, the way American politics works,
there are two groups of rich people. The one group of rich people is happy to grow the pie as
long as they have their share of it. The other group of rich people want to grow their share of it
and they don't give a damn about the size of the pie. Understand? This is different between the war
and puppets of the world and the Koch brothers of the world. Yeah, the rich people don't the rich
people that are voting Democrat don't mind how much they're being taxed. So long as they have
everything they they want. The rich people backing the Republicans don't want to be taxed. They
want to keep every penny they can steal from their workers. Oh, it's not much much different from
the north side to be honest with you. And so there is no party for the poor people. There is a party
that tries to fool the poor people into thinking they're on their side. And there's the party that
sometimes does things that actually help the poor people. And the ones that are being hurt the
most are the ones that are not voting for that second party. Yeah, when six generations later,
you're still as dirt poor as your daddy, but you wonder how come you're not any better when
you've been voting Republican all these years. All right, I back in politics. Let's go somewhere else.
You have to be talking about my guitars and that was a safe topic. I know, I know, I know, we're
going to, you know, safe topic. Well, I am a moderately well-known filter. I don't have as many
CDs as a lot of people I know, but even those people know me. I've got a bandcamp page. I've got
some livestock on my YouTube page, which is Bard Moss. My bandcamp page is more duos.
More duos.bandcamp.com. All right, I'm done. What's that come to that is photography for some
no-a-day bands. Uh-huh. Yeah. No, I used to do that back in the day. And then I had to make
a decision. Do I keep up with photography or do I keep up full-time job and full-time job one
that that argument pretty quick? Well, do you survive or not? And the prices of housing in
Canada are such that you need to survive. Housing, even apartments, it's incredible my dude. Like,
what was the other day? A one-bedroom apartment was going for 1600 Canadian. Like a one-bedroom.
Any Americans listening add 25% or subtract 25% actually? Yeah. Yeah, yes. So it's a $1,200
apartment in the U.S. Insane, man. For a one-bedroom? I live in a three-bedroom two-bath trailer.
Yes, is a trailer? Yes, it looks ugly and rusty and beaten up, but we're paying $475 a month.
No, it's not mine. Well, we're still renting it, but it's $475 a month.
Budge, man. I'll trade places with you. I'll trade places with you. My wife does not want to go
back to Canada. The winter's here or two colds for her. Ha-ha. We get maybe six snowfalls a year,
and I doubt if it ever sticks for more than two days. I saw that like Canada right now to be honest
with you. Well, I spent a lot of years in Colorado, and I spent four and a half years in Detroit,
and in Colorado, they don't close the schools unless there's more than two feet of snow in an
active blizzard. That sounds like my upbringing. I don't remember the old man. You don't
have to see the close down the schools when there's a 40% chance of snow.
Go, man. The only time he told us we didn't have to go in when it was going to hit minus 35,
then he was like, he'd stay home today. Heck, we never hit minus 35 here.
We've had a few minus degrees, but not many. Uh-huh. Let me see. I don't have my phone in here.
I don't want to shout to Alexa. Let me just open up my browser and look up the weather here.
Turn your headphones real loud. I'll show up for you.
See. I've had all these friends tell me I need to get
various keyboards, and I just stick with my fellows. Microband ergonomic.
Whatever. Yeah, I don't even know what I have. I mean, whatever I
filtered from the recycle bin at work is what I'm using right now. Yeah, well, I've been type,
I'm a speed typist. And one of those would mess up both wrists real bad. Damn. Oh, yeah,
no, I got the I got the eargoats for my wrist. Yeah, no, I do have that. Yeah.
Well, my computer doesn't want to give me anything on the internet is mumble using up that much
of my time. Oh, no, it's it's going to be the new year soon at the end of the world. I'm telling you.
Ah, here we go. Here we go. 37709. Come on.
This HPR has discord channel and everything else.
Still, I heard you talking about discord while you're going out. I was like, I didn't even see
your discord channel. Well, the only way I'm connected to HPR these days is through my mastodon.
I don't do any social media. Come on. I gave you my zip code.
No results found. You do not exist. They're giving me Manhattan and that ain't where I live.
Let me see. They don't have any tendency on here. Let me find a different weather than this is
from the weather channel. You think they'd have it? Let's try the weather underground.
Search locations. I was finding you mentioned weather underground. I pick up
a guy up the street. He has a weather station. Yeah. But he also has his amateur radio license.
So my radio picks up all his telemetry. So I never go to the weather channel or the weather
network. But I just turn on one of my radios and read the telemetry. Well, current temperature
is 46 Fahrenheit, uh, getting down to a low of 29 tonight. So minus one is terrible. That's not
bad. I go camping into 10 minus one. Generally, when it's overcast or raining or snowing,
it's warmer than when it's not. Well, of course. When the sky is open up, everything goes out
there. Yep. Tomorrow will have a high of 41 and a low of 28. What is tomorrow for me? Hold on.
Our average high for December 31 is 48 and our average low is 31. Currently it's 19 for us.
And but tomorrow morning, it will be 18. Our record high for December 31 is 77 and our record
low is two. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So two. Yeah. That was pretty low, though. And that's right.
Well, yeah, but it's the end of December. You know, it's winter. Yeah. So we really have mild
weather here. The problem is the better the weather, the stupider, the people.
Is it humid weathered or dry during the summer? It's humid during the winter. It's dry.
Okay. During the winter, we have to run our humidifiers.
Okay. It's always humid as hell here. I don't know why.
Let's see. Right now it's 58% humidity. Well, let's see. Today is the 31st. On the second,
I'll be recording District Hoppers Digest. On the third, I'll probably do my next weekly full
circle weekly news. And the Sunday after that, what is at the sixth? I will. Yeah. I will be doing
my hundreds episode of Mintcast. Mintcast. And I'll never, I never checked. I went out. Hold on.
I'll add as much heat. Well, you probably haven't checked out District Hoppers Digest or
full circle. The news either. Mintcast, the number of listeners very so widely, widely. I think we
have a low around 2000 and a high around 13, 14,000. District Hoppers Digest is much smaller.
It's a niche of a niche of a niche podcast. Yeah. Mintcast, last episode, December 18th,
South Korea, in Japan, merges, e-battlegrounds in the US, right? Yo, it sounds like too much of
the stuff we're talking about. Yeah. And Joe's on that too. He's poked his nose in a few times here.
And you said, actually, Joe and I thought District Hoppers Digest, yes. And then the other one
is full circle weekly news. It's just 10 minutes or less of news with no advertising. I try and
keep it down to the basic what what the news story is. If you want to know more, you can look up
the link in the show notes. And some episodes I have to really work and cut some stuff out of
what I wanted to say to get it down to 10 minutes. But most of my keep it down around eight minutes.
It's something you don't have to listen to it all night. You just get it over with.
If anything tickles your fancy, you've got to link in the show notes. Plus the fact that the next
issue of full circle magazine, which is an online magazine that's been published since at least
08, maybe 07 has all of the news articles as they originally presented. Basically, the news is
compiled by a guy I know is Eric the Unready in South Africa. He sends me the file. I edit it into
something I can read and get in in less less than 10 minutes. I do my podcast. And then he also
submits it to the magazine. And it gets published in the monthly magazine. And then when I get done
editing my podcast, I send it to Ronnie who is in Scotland. And he publishes it.
We're watching. We're watching. Well, it's pretty much one part of the world. But yeah,
very big part of the world. I mean, we don't have anyone in Asia.
Yeah, you know, so like I have in 14 weeks I will have done my 300th episode of full circle
weekly news. No, my two, no, my three year episode. I've done three years, 52 episodes a year.
I see I don't know what I'm doing. I just I just keep doing it and let people pick up the pieces,
you know, distrohoppers digest is about every five weeks. We, one of the co-hosts is a
monghaul trucker. And we only record when he's home. He's on the road for four weeks and then
gets a week off. Yep, yep, yep. Yeah, no, a few trucks. Yeah, well, Bill, who's one of our leads
on Mintcast is a short haul trucker. He does long haul, but not long term. He's home every week.
But yeah, we moved all of our, he moved all of our Mintcast stuff to his servers.
I've been northern Indiana and, you know, our next cloud is on his servers, our websites on his servers.
For a while, we had a mumble room on his servers.
I see, right? Because like the last people you'd expect me like doing this kind of stuff
in the technology field, but like trucker, like in runs, sorry, they mean to sort run servers,
et cetera, except, you know what I mean? I, I find that so awesome. When
a, well, Bill actually sent a podcast with two of his buddies called three fat truckers.
He also has one called Linux OTC, which is off the cuff. There's no script. They just sit
around and babble each other for however long they feel like. So yeah, there are a lot of podcasts
out there, people. I do three. Joe's been trying to get me on tilts. I haven't managed it yet,
but isn't three podcasts enough? Yeah, I'm looking at now. Three fat truckers just
posted three hours ago on their, on their podcast sheets. Yeah. Well, Bill's a great guy. He is,
Joe and I came on Mintcast in October of 2018. And the previous host said, we've done this enough.
We're letting go. You guys run with it if it dies. That's not our fault.
Oh, what it is. Yeah. Well, the, uh, the one of those co-hosts had done, uh, like two hundred
and seventy two episodes. And it's every other week. Let me pose a question. Now, this is,
let me bring years ago, HPR, when I first started listening to it, I came in to H, uh, HPR from,
um, uh, by and every revolution radio with stank thought. Yeah. Does that cat ever come back
around or is he gone completely? I haven't even heard of that one. No, that's where I was supposed.
Uh, stank, uh, what he went, I, and I called him on Twitter back in the day, uh,
talked to honky magoo. Maybe he knows our Joe, Joe's not here right now. Honky's been quiet
this whole time. Yeah, no, I remember he started a podcast. We tried to start a, like, a video
kind of feed podcast. I remember he had a whole intro done up and there was a bunch of cats running
through the server rooms and the hackeries type guys. But yeah, no, yeah, that's, it was my intro
to HPR and that was it. Yeah, a long time, a long time ago. Well, back when we came on
mintcast, we were using the HPR mumble room to do our show. Uh, probably in about six months,
we had our own mumble room on our own server. But when we started, it was all HPR. In fact,
when we started distroppers digest, we're using the, uh, HPR mumble room. I think we're just using
discord now. We've tried using, uh, video ninja, which is video dot ninja. It's a, it's a web-based
thing and it works on just about everything. But we've had so many issues with that and it's not
that it's a bad piece of software. It's just that if we have issues, we don't know what to do.
Well, boss, I got a, I got to drop out. I got some barbecue chicken waiting for me.
Uh, yes, sir. Is that time? Yeah, but I'll be, I always for me. Hey, you know, you're somewhere.
I'll do you somewhere. I'll be back on later. I just, I just, I want to eat some dinner and I can
feel that chicken from where I'm standing right now. And I got all right. Talk to you later.
Take care, my friend. Just bye. We're getting fireworks here now.
Well, since no one else is talking, I think I'll go take another break. But I'm here.
Somebody just had a new year, six minutes ago. I don't know who it was. No one's really doing
that job this, this year has to be Shasta. Hello, is anybody here? Anybody around? So
not much of a podcast, doesn't it? If no one's actually here. I think I got my audio working
finally. What was that? Oh, you're here. Oh, you're in my, oh, yeah, you were trying to hear my
phone with no idea, weren't you? I don't know what I did. I just stuffed around with the
settings and then the USB mic became an option. So that was whatever I did fixed it. I just don't
know what I did. Are you from Australia or New Zealand or somewhere? From Australia. What day
of it away? I can tell, I tell with the accent, I thought, no, there's a lot of, I mean, there's not
a, I'm not in America either, but there's a lot of Americans on this obviously. Where am I from?
Are you saying British to me? But yeah, there's a lot of Americans on here. But that's okay.
I reckon you're from England. That's good. That's good. I actually watched the, well, I was a little
bit behind, but I'm like, man, I can wind on the, on the internet really, but I just, I actually
watched the Sydney fireworks earlier. Yeah, because it was showing on the internet and like,
and even that, that, the song there was okay, the first one. I've just seen my own countries
and it's, as usual, it's a bit, not that great, really. Yeah, I really, yeah. What's that?
They really put in love effort into the Sydney fireworks. They usually have it on the
bridge. I didn't, I didn't watch it this year that these were up to bridge. Oh, they did
there as well. They, they put a lot of effort into the, it's a big hype. And then they put
music on TV and then they had some of the like, things that happened in the year messages on TV as
well. But where am I from? Have you figured out? Where am I from? Oh, I'm pretty sure in England,
but I don't know whereabouts exactly in England. Yeah, exactly in England. Yeah, England.
Yeah, the London show has always hyped up a bit and then they were talking about
like the quid, they're obviously the queen, the new King and Queen this year. Oh, sorry, last year,
I'm not saying I'm actually 20, 24, yeah. And the NHS is, do you know, NHS is?
No, I guess, National Health Service, I would guess. Yeah, yeah, because we have that. And I mean,
it's not perfect, but I can be problems. I mean, Covid was obviously a problem for NHS as well
when there was a pandemic. But then if you need like, you know, an emerging operation or something,
then usually, like, well, sometimes if you've had to wait for ambulances and there's been
problems, but I think usually to get in and get seen quick enough, although I don't like the
local doctors to do like general practitioner GP, they always seem a bit not great. But if
as an emergency, there's the hospitals usually sort out. And then it's, yeah, pay for the pack
of taxpayer and stuff, whereas your app is prioritised, it's private. And America's got
any of them, West Health system, it's not, they're what they, they usually say, don't know.
Yeah, we've got a similar system to you, but the sound of it, it's called Medi-K.
Where are you in Australia? Yeah, I mean, like, four times as I think as well.
Yeah, yeah, true. We've got East Coast and the West Coast and the slides up the middle.
So, depending on their lights savings, it could be four times as well, but it's normally three, I think.
That's actually massive. Are you in the middle somewhere?
I'm over in the East Coast, sort of northeast of Melbourne. So, South East, I suppose you'd call it.
Yeah, I've never been that day, but I mean, the third people I have gone over there.
Actually, just when I used to go to school where they moved to New Zealand,
they still lived over there. And I've had somebody, one man called this in New Zealand at
time, I think. But yeah, New Zealand, Australia, but both places, I think, would be probably
quite interesting to visit in a way, but they're quite far away from me, saying that.
Yeah, it's a bit of a trip. I was over in England in 1974. I think it was.
What was that? I was in Bath, Bath in England.
Were you in England?
1974. So, that probably puts a bit of an age on me.
74. That's when I was about eight years old, I think. My dad was a university lecturer in
I had a stint over in Bath University.
Oh, really? That's interesting, because I live, well, my city is, if you know where the
cities are, then my city is not Bath. However, Bath is only about 12 miles away from my actual
nearby city, let's say. Well, I live by that city now, really. I mean, at one stage,
it's all joined together in a massive, massive county called Raven.
What am I? Am I? Like in like the 1990s, for example, with two cities, and I think
you've been westerns of the mayor, possibly, and all the other stuff. But yeah, Bath is like
the other city, but it's not that far away from here, really. You can get there my train
about half an hour, maybe, if even that. Well, the bus is in about 45 minutes or something.
Yes, it's like the other city that's 12 miles away from me. So yes, I've been to Bath a few times
as well. And it's quite a nice, well, where it's got the old Georgian look, it's like it's
expensive to have a pop out there. It's on those places. It's not cheap, but it's nice, and it's
known for the Roman baths, obviously, with the history. And actually, I went there once,
and I even went and saw Richard Stalman, you know, Richard Stalman, yeah. I went to one of his
speeches once, and then he's like, oh, he's a Linux developer, something to me.
I don't know how much you're into Linux, or an open source, or not, or free software,
if you like, phasing software, phasing, because you're on HPR at the end of the day. But yes,
he started the whole free software movement, basically, although to be chairing Cone University,
but then the proprietary software companies started coming along and restricting Codes, and then
him and I believe some others were like, no, we don't like this. So they came to sort of
a new project, which basically, like, you're in turn, so to unique, but compatible, I think. But
Cone wasn't good enough, and then it obviously became compatible. They started their free software
foundation, and the free software movement, and importantly, he started, or was involved with
the writing of the general public license as well, which I hope you know what that is.
I heard a bit about that. I'm probably more of a Linux user, but I have picked up a bit of the
history along the way, and Richard's my recollection or my interpretation of him is his hard core
free software, so anything that's not free in both ways, he's opposed to.
He's sort of on the stream end, really, but he's quite weak. I mean, I went to this back
University, and it was like 2013, I think, yeah, and he just happened to have been there. I found
that he was going to do a speech there, and I went to this speech, and it was like two hours,
nonstop, and he was telling you about the ethics of, you know, to play the same role software,
if you'd have the code open, I mean, free software available, regardless of what type of software
is as well, and it was very much nonstop, nonstop, he was calling things, this was calling
the price, I always offer that digital handcuffs, and I mean, I mean, he says don't put it on YouTube,
don't video mean, put it on YouTube, you would set the address features, although I have
YouTube videos, because YouTube is obviously not run by completely by free software, but it's just
like that, if you see a video online, it really is, and I remember, I remember some guy wanting to
leave the room, because he wanted to go to toilet, I believe it was, and then he had
Richard Stalman picked up on that some guy was going to leave the room to me, and he had a right
go at him, and he was in like a McDonald's top or something, I think, from what I seem to remember,
but, and then I remember I was going to go with go and Brussels, I guess, there's Fosden,
and one year he was just speak over there as well, we're not at Fosden, but the other University
campus, I tried to get there, I went taxi, and I didn't know where the room was, I tried to ask
people around, and there was a bank across, and I really tried to ask where it was, and I thought
well, even if I find this room now, I'm not going into Richard Stalman's beach late, because he
might have a girl at me as well, and I'm not having that, I can have a fine, I've got the paper,
I couldn't find the room, so I ended up selling a walk around with gem larrier and stuff,
and getting a taxi back to where I'd stay in, but it was a little bit annoying, but I had already
seen him speak anyway, but it's an experience, definitely, I mean a lot of these people
into open stores and free software don't completely agree with him, but he does a lot of great stuff,
and although he used to go on to websites apparently, well not normally, it was with like a
screen reader I think, because it doesn't release, it doesn't show the code, because the website
could be running for part of Tory JavaScript, or something like that, or something like that,
I'll have somebody translate a webpage, and then what apparently happened, because they have
their own conferences as well, I can Boston, they don't leave a planet, which I've never,
I've never been to, I'm not in the USA, but I mean, I just saw online these three,
that I love to get some of that new planet as well, that'd be amazing, but apparently one year,
I think it's true, I think it's true, it was announced that suddenly he goes on websites normally,
and he has a very free software only laptop as well, a special laptop, but leave a planet that year,
apparently it was an audience gasped and then the pool didn't, that he now goes on websites normally,
and it was like really, but it's great what he's done, and he's still doing, he's over 16,
he's still going around the world doing his speeches and stuff, I mean, I think it's absolutely
amazing what he's done, but obviously he's not getting rich during any of this, but it's great,
it's great what he's done really, his net minor back, do you hear that net minor?
I think I saw him join, yeah I saw the net minor commit, yeah, you are here, net minor here,
but yeah rich is down with, I mean, I mean, people think he's a little bit extreme or whatever,
I don't know, they don't agree with him completely, but I think generally speaking sure,
I think all those software should ideally have, I mean, certain pros, certain software,
because for certain things you may not want that, there may be good reasons to not have it,
like that, you know, like an army or whatever, you know, certain things you don't want,
we don't want the code out there for the whole world to see and with sort of good reason,
but all this sort of general purpose software like web browsers and office suits and computer
graphics programs and movie editing and film editing and computer games, even although they could
debate around computer games, say, but computer games are artwork as well and if you,
if you have the code available, then they might not make as many games because it's also the
music and the artwork and so on and so forth, or maybe when those games stop being sold, they should
open source them at least, but I think generally speaking most software should have the code available,
and ideally under a life software license, I've sat such as the DPL or more poly DPL or really,
because that's the one that is supposed to give the most sort of freedom and things as well,
I mean, without other licenses to the BSD and the, I'm not a programmer, I'm a reuse of myself,
but I know about, I know about licensing a bit and I know about some of the sort of legal issues
and policy issues stuff and I know that things can happen, I know that companies can get sued for
breaking the general public license even because they put code into a TV and try to sell it and
things like that as well. Yeah, it's a bit of a mind field, I suppose some of the definitely
products that go broke as they should open source all their code actually, so you've got
someone's got a chance of reverse engineering at all, taking it on to all that hard, where out there
isn't just put in the bin, like, you know, common money security cameras and stuff like that,
they go non-supported, but I can see, you know, people invest a lot of time and if it
riding some software, I probably want to get some strictly tuned for their work, I can sort of,
I can see that every year, that's sort of it as well. So, can I, but the thing is, the thing is,
you can still make money from open source, that the code, you know, programs that aren't available,
because like, you can look at that end-by-dimics, as an example, although now they're apparently
trying to hide some of the stuff or that all it's the code is there, but it's like a digital puzzle,
they're not being quite as open-table and saying, hey, look, this is how we made
where that end-by-dimics, because there are some community versions of all forks, things based on
web app that are really like, I mean, I mean, there was sent us, but that's got killed up in
the pandemic or something, but then you've got Oracle Linux based on whatever you've got, Elmer,
you've got Rocky, and it's not just that, but it's like, it's like Connacore Ubuntu, I mean,
there's a bit, there's a bit of shame there because they had to drop a lot of nice,
consumer focus, interesting things that they were doing, I say interesting, that's my opinion,
I think the phone project is quite amazing, quite interesting, I mean, it carries on now as under
Ubisoft, what they're doing is amazing under the community, but Connacore itself have to drop
the whole Unity interface, the whole phone project, the whole, you know, well, yeah, those kind
of things, because it wasn't making money quite, quite frankly, check those shareholders,
and Mark Shutterworth has had to stop while I was told by someone who used to work for them,
one event actually, one night at about 4am, one event I went to, yes, it was in the hotel afterwards,
and we were sitting there about four o'clock, four thirty in the morning,
some of us, and he quite clearly told me that Mark Shutterworth wanted to carry on with that,
those things himself, really, but he had to, he had to be dropped, really, because it,
like I said, that he was paying his own money into Connacore for a long time, and it's supposed
to be a commercial sponsor of Ubuntu, and it's supposed to be making his own profits,
so money, and then there's some shareholders or some things, and they had to drop the,
Ubuntu 4 sample, the tab, the phone project, like I just said, and Unity interface as well,
because those things are not making money, when the money is, it's basically servers in the cloud,
and I think what they call IoT maybe as well, then internet, things, or whatever, and the desktop is,
oh yeah, there's nothing really money to make here, I mean, there's been other ones that tried
that in the past, like Mandrape or Mandriva, for example, they had to go at trying to do
something that sort of, because you're a market, pay for the electric features, and there's been
a few in the past, but it doesn't really work, especially when people come download a lot of the
stuff for free anyway, on the internet, which happened more recently, so yeah, I mean, the money is
business really, and the enterprise, and that's just how it is, but that's just real, that's
just how it is, that's reality. It's hard to get around that. Even Microsoft, they have to,
well they have to, but they work much more, they've got an open source lab for years, and they've
been going to the Ubuntu summit, just started up again, that's cash with public last year,
latter year this year, and they went and did talks and things, because they're working more with
open source, and you can run Windows, subsistence and Linux, you have a, in Windows, have a,
like a Linux terminal, and because, again, there's businesses and enterprises that want to have
a bit of Windows, they want to have Linux servers and things as well, so it's in their interest to
sort of work a bit together now, not go against them. Yeah, they're a lot of you do it, because it's
suits them, I suppose, a bit of a city, but I think they're doing it any other reason.
Well, well yeah, I mean, they say that we're just newer here with Microsoft, that there's been
the whole thing about how on the internet, how Microsoft love Linux, or so they say, but I think
really what they love is Linux when it kind of is in their business sense, and they can make money
from using Linux somehow as well, or being involved with it, or helping some customer, that
big enterprise or business customer, I mean, that wants to, you know, they want to have to say a
maybe Linux server, but also some Windows desktop, so whatever it is, so they want a bit of both,
you know, and then it's in Microsoft interest, but I don't think, but they also don't really care
about home users, particularly. Well, no, actually, they can't, they probably do to an extent,
because they don't want, they don't want like, well, in the sense of restricting, and they're still
don't want to have like a bunty being sold on normal computers, I don't think, they're, they're
quite happy how most people will just buy a PC and get Windows. Yeah, in fact, it's quite hard
to buy a PC without Windows on it, at least here anyway, everywhere you buy a new PC or laptop,
it's got Windows pre-installed. Yeah, whatever they did that intention around the world,
I think they met my own and said something like Dell, and because Dell, I mean, Dell actually
did some of my bunty laptops pre-installed like in 2008 in America, but they were a bit hard to
find, and they're only limited one, I think, and I found someone online who needed some
bunty help, and she had one, it was like, oh, really? That's, that's interesting. But I think
they would talk, I think the thing is they would have gone to Dell before HP or whatever, and said,
if you're going to put all these, if you're going to sell these like Linux laptops,
then we're going to basically not give you a very good deal on Windows to have that pre-installed,
although, although, although that was down, although saying now, apparently conical has quite a good
and reasonably good business relationship with Microsoft, actually, is what has well. So,
the way the way time changes, and then there's a story about the old Steve armist had in 1998
what he called Linux, and that's how it means that, but I mean, that was a long time ago as well.
It had been interesting to see what happens in the next 10 years, five years, 10 years,
when some of the original Linux, I suppose, creators or contributors or whatever.
Linux is an Android. Android is an open source, not the Google services, but the actual operating
system is open source, and it's also run by Rogen Linux. Just like the Chromebook is based on
GEN2 Linux, so that's, you know, a sort of Linux. It's not quite the desktop Linux that we're
used to, but it's, you know, it's still Linux. And if you include those two, then you can say that
we're, Linux has the desktop market via Chromebook, and the mobile phone, the mainstream mobile
phone market via Android. But what I think also is happening now is that a lot of people don't
really need a computer, and they might occasionally, that really the phone or the tablet is good enough,
and I mean, I'm most on the tablet at a phone or myself, actually, just, you know, you've got a web
web, and you don't always need a full-blown computer. You really don't.
No, most people I know just, if they use the computer, it's for work, I guess you add to it.
Yeah, happy work.
Everything else is on their phone.
My work laptops are to HP with Windows on it, so live and breathe Windows for work,
and it's one reason why I've been using Linux outside of work just to play with something different.
Well, yeah, well, yeah, although, well, yeah, it's quite, that's quite kind of
established now, really. I mean, I mean, you get a new version of the Gnome and KD like normal,
and they're actually just trying to do some quite interesting things with Gnome again now,
and KD maybe to some extent, I don't like KD so much. I like some of the programs, but not as an
interface, personally, too much like Windows, actually. But I can do a lot more than Windows,
but I didn't really like it. I like some of the programs. I go to Gnome and Unity, and I might
even run my Tadiol, Gnome 2.4. I mean, it looked old now, because it is old. It's something
that looks like something from the year 2000, which it basically is, was, but yeah, mostly just,
it just works, except for the rare problem with something, maybe, I can try and just get a project
working. So we need a dislike top one other device, so I'm doing a speech,
a bit of a speaking group, it's consumed, and it's going to be about installing a bunch of
Linux, I'm going to try and make it funny as well, because people think size of speech is a boring,
but yeah, I have the message also that I've got a joke in there, but yeah, and I've got some ideas.
I have to get this project to working or something.
Yeah, some of the interfaces are a bit of a pain. I'm pleased to use, like,
but I think there's a lot of people that are a bit scared to try anything else out,
or they don't see why they might want to, so they just kind of use what they know, and what's
mainstream, and to hear that they're friends and other people are using it, then it's like,
okay, Android, or iPhone, or in the case with desktop windows, or Mac or Mac.
I work with the person who I said I use Linux, and he's, you know, what would you do then?
It's open source. I've gone, it's a strange argument. It's like, do not use something,
but that was his logic. He doesn't want to use it, because it's open source.
No, that's actually one of the reasons to use it, or should be, because what
is that? That's what I think, yeah, it's strange.
Just asking if he understands what open source is, because I think he's got the wrong idea.
Well, yeah, then it could be that, just that, that he's thinking this is not from some big company,
that's known, and it's some sort of thing for, I don't know, there's not a well-known company,
so in that case, oh, can we trust this? He says it is a security threat, because people can see
how the operating system works, so he thinks that that's more like he's going to, he's going to
be able to hack into it. Well, seeing how it works is not the same thing as it is, hacking in the
operating room. On the one hand, tension, yes, maybe that could be the truth, but on the other hand,
it's more like, most of these programs have a lot of eyes on them, or they're probably
trying to explain that to me, people can, thousands of people around the world are looking at the
source code and finding all the exploits, potential exploits, and fixing them before they become
actual exploits. I think that makes sense. Where is everybody? This is like one quarter of what we
had last year. No, no, it's been disappointing, hasn't it? I've stirred some other stuff. I
had some chat a little bit. I was watching a new Fireworks and Web, and I came back and I'm like,
oh, that's literally no one talking, but a lucky crystal's here and he's got his microphone working,
and I was thinking, come on, that's podcast, because yes, it's a night time here now, but that's
not, that's fine, that's, that's fine, you're good, but there should be more, it's true that
there should be a bit more chatter, really. Well, I guess I will get back to my wife again.
Happy New Year, everybody. Yeah, to be down on people this year. Yeah, I'm really disappointed,
I expect you to have that last year we had such a wide open conversation. Well, is that
going to be something to do with it? Or, there's like all the lockdowns finished and everything.
Well, that was the year before when you won that. Yeah, I'll try to forget that. We had it pretty
bad here, so I won't go into that. I think I had, I read some of that, even your borders with
New Zealand, yeah, which I normally like, yeah, fine, okay, you want to go from New Zealand,
now from Australia, whatever, let's travel between each other's country, no problem, then it was
COVID, and it was like, nope, sorry, sorry, I had New Zealand friends, but we're locked down and
we weren't supposed to get more than five K away from home. Five miles, or...
Oh, can it kill, kill, kill a miss? Yeah, three and a half miles or something.
Three and a half miles. Yeah, they're just like that in Wales, you know, the UK's like
up into like four countries, really, yeah. It's got, because your England, Wales, Scotland,
and Northern Ireland, right? So, wildlife is not bad, but I'm going to say, well,
bath and Bristol are the cities right around here, but then there's a river,
there's a southern and then you've got, yeah, Wales over there, and Wales could do their own,
I'm just starting to follow in as well, they've got their own governments to an extent,
so they can do their own rules to some extent. They have to follow the main UK rules,
and then most of it, they can also do their own laws and rules to some extent, and in the case
of the pandemic, they basically got full control, each country to do their own thing, or pretty much,
although an England was probably the most relaxed, was actually in many ways the most relaxed
country of the lot, but not that's still under lockdown and things, but in the case of Wales,
it was a bit like that too, I think it was like, yeah, you could go out, you could only go about
five miles, even that, and then you have to go home, as one of the things, and then, yeah,
yeah, it's a crazy time, it was, it was, when they ease down here, right? They, they, they,
there was an idea to do a tear system, right? So, like I said, I live by a city, not bathed,
the other city, like that, and freshly I live, I don't live in the city, I live by the city,
I mean, yes, the 90s is all joined up together, even whatever, but it's not now, because it's
in full, full counties, because you got, you got like, um, well, tarflosher, Bristol City Council,
North Somerset and Bath and the North East Somerset, or something, or something like that, yeah,
so, so I live near a boundary between what I'm going to call real Bristol, even though around here,
people would say this is Bristol or not, people would think it is, but it isn't, and so basically,
I wasn't allowed to walk, let's say, 10, 15 minutes down the road that way, or 10, 15 minutes,
or so down the road the other way, because if I did that, I would have been crossing the,
the boundary into the other county, right, and what it is, they put a tier system as things were
easing down, it was based on counties as well, so, so we ended up with like tier one, which was like,
yellow, white, I think, and that was about a little island off Plymouth, where not much happened,
so they would like tier one or someone like that, which is like basically normal times,
that was like, there's only like one place that was tier one, tier two was a little bit more
relaxed, but still sort of locked downly, and then tier three was, they meant that tier two could have
pubs open suddenly, but tier three couldn't, that was the main thing, right, and pub is important
in England, because people want to go out and have days and things, and it's very much part of
the culture, go to a pub and have a beer, or possibly a beer ball too, or all cider will have you
drinking, and so suddenly, it's like the pub really close to where I live, and there was another
place, it's like a restaurant pub anyway, those pubs has to be shut, but then about 10 minutes away,
the pubs there could be open, like normal, or pretty much, because it was tier three here,
and it was tier two there, and then what also happened interestingly here, and there was the
other Joe fussing about it last time, because he ended up in London and tier four, which was basically
locked down, that was a lockdown, basically, and what they've done is they've put a north
north of England into tier four, because the girls, because they're based in like Westminster
London's southeast, and then the Manchester Mayor in particular, one of the big cities up there,
he made a fuss about it, because he was Labour in politics, not conservative, like the government,
so he made a big fuss about it on TV, and he was going like, it's not fair, you keep on putting
a north in lockdown, and things like this in tier four, and then you'll never do it to the south
east, or London, and then suddenly, that was probably because of politics, I would have thought
ready, but suddenly, he decided to put a London into tier four, plus a lot of the surrounding areas,
it was like a big chunk, and it was a bit like, there was some of the escape London as well,
my brother's work was working up there, as well, and he was being like, I don't want to get out,
I don't want to be in lockdown on tier four, lots of people were thinking the same, and then that
happened as well, and then in Scotland, it was like, it's a pub, but you have to have substantial
meal, people like, that's Scottish egg, like no, yeah, I don't know, people fussed about it here,
but I heard the injured, it was for sample, it was very much, why are you out here,
what are you doing on the street, go home, what's the shared ID, and yeah, I saw a lot about a lot
on the internet, and a lot of most countries went through some sort of burden of lockdown, some
worse than others. Yeah, we had it, I wasn't buried, but it's in some stages, it was pretty
bad, or pretty serious, seriously restricted, but I do a lot of cycling, and I used to go out and
ride, and if you knew where I lived, it's, it's not rummaged, but like there's certainly spots
in Australia the day, very remote, but where I live there's not too many people around, it's
likely populated, so I used to go for a ride, and I never got into any trouble, because I figured
that I'm out on my own, there's no one around, so still getting me exercise, and I enjoy riding,
so that was my thing, I didn't, I had, I changed jobs actually, while COVID was happening,
so I've been both jobs I could work from home, reasonably well, but the first one I had
had a factory to go in, oh the first job, the job I had went COVID first started,
the job I had at the time, so it was probably half working at home and then half going into the factory,
because we had some projects that were considered to be essential services, so we had an exemption
for that, and then I changed jobs, and then I could pretty much work 90% from home, so
that part was okay, but some people couldn't go to work, people who worked in hospitality,
they just, their job was just ran out I suppose, well they did, wow, I mean there's benefits
anyway here, disabilities, not working, there's a benefit system, you get money, you get
from the government, and it's not great, really isn't great on benefits, I know, for a fact,
but you know there's some sort of health, some sort of welfare, some sort of money that comes in,
usually in normal times anyway, but what interestingly happened here,
when all these people that should have been working really, like you just said,
like hospitality, it could have been, or leather centres, or that sort of thing,
there are lots of people that should have been working really, they decided the government here,
decided like okay, we'll basically give you about 80% of your normal pay, I felt like something
like that, I think the employee maybe did 20% or something like that, but they could do it in a
government, go about 80% or something like that, they call it furlough, yeah, so they furloughed lots
and lots of people that should have really been working, and then there would have been working,
but then obviously where's that money coming from, the furlough people,
exactly in a taxpayer as well, yeah, so I'm just still trying to pay it off, I think.
Yeah, and they kind of made money out of finair apparently, because you can go, they're not really
supposed to do this, but they can go to like the bank of England and say hey, we need like,
I mean someone said this to me, I don't know, I guess it's true, they can basically go to the
bank of England and the government and say hey, we need like maybe three trillion pounds or something,
and then they go okay, fine, we'll just kind of make three trillion pounds, I mean it's
electronic anyway, isn't it, so yeah, we'll just understand that.
What can be wrong with that? And then apparently that's also partly or one reason why this
country is now going through, there's been a lot of inflation, like the food prices have gone
up and things, and then try the reasons obviously gas with things that are going on elsewhere,
it's been with electric and heating and things have also been a problem, but the food has gone up
of anything, 10% inflation and things like that, so it's been like the worst since like the 80s or
something, and now it's going down in places, a lot of things are being a lot more expensive,
and there's what they're calling the cost of living crisis here now as well, where lots of
people struggling just to get through basically because because everything is,
we're going to get stuck here, yeah, yeah, it's happening, it's coming up, yeah, yeah,
yeah, how prices are really, yeah, I think a merit player and as well as going to some
in similar Canada and probably merriest countries in Europe, for really as well and so on,
and it's, yeah, the house prices and all that as well, rent or rent, either as a buy or to rent,
it's just, it's just crazy, yeah, it'll stop soon because at some stage if people can't afford
to pay their rents within, they can't afford it, they can't pay it, so I'm not, I'm not
making it annoying as well as with benefits or low income, well actually benefits can sometimes
go to people on low jobs as well, although there is at least one or two here that can, I think,
but they do work and they get such low pay that they might be able to get a little bit of benefit
money as well, but the problem is with the benefits don't really align properly with the inflation,
either, so a lot of people are, that's a 200, 300, maybe 400 pounds less well off than they
should be each month because of that sort of reason as well, and the other thing I think with
jobs as well is that they haven't really, I don't think many jobs have gone up in pay, and they're
pretty much the same as they were, or they might have gone up very slightly after them because
they're minimum wage, but there's a minimum wage here, but you have to pay at least that per hour,
but it's not great now. Yeah, but we've got the same minimum wage
arranged, but there's supposed to be a labour shortage, which is,
well you say, yeah, but usually drives wages up, but it's not, it's a bit of a lag at the moment
to say the least. Maths, and Maths, and well, I'm actually one diverge of having a general
lecture this year as well, which is going to be interesting, because there'll be a new
government coming in, and which party is, but no, probably be labour this time next time, but maybe
not, but then it's still, the Cardiff has left us, there's still the same problems to like
deal with, which out of party comes into power. I think there's some big decisions to be made,
and a bit of persistence, I suppose, to push on with whatever they choose to do,
because I think the moment, one of the things is, there's too many people trying to please
everyone, and they end up with this, these half-baked or compromised solutions that just don't
work. They don't, they don't achieve anything really that they're trying to. Yeah, so now what you
mean, they keep everyone happy. People have to be, but then certain things aren't quite
how they should do anyway, you know. I mean, too many people, we call social welfare here,
they see people getting paid to do nothing for various reasons, some of it's legitimate,
but the more of that you've got, it reduces your overall productivity, it dollars per productivity,
and you can only, that's going to go down so far before you're in some serious trouble.
What do you mean in the job, or, yeah? Yeah, I suppose the amount of stuff that gets done,
useful things, whether you're building roads or growing food or transporting goods or whatever
you're actually doing, as opposed to, you know, people sending it home, getting paid to, well,
because they can't work for some reason, or they don't want to work or whatever, or they're in some
job that doesn't actually achieve anything. I don't want to say condescending, so I won't
mention any examples, but there's plenty of examples of people with those jobs,
and I said don't do anything. Yeah, that's something I've been thinking about some extent as well,
actually, because, I mean, maybe not quite what you meant really, but I mean, I like how you say,
yes, like, so a lot of people, I mean, I mean, actually, you know what, I might have disability
benefit for some reason or the other, as for example, right? But then you get people who think,
oh god, oh, someone's on benefits, oh dear, oh no, oh no, and then you get, and you also get,
really feel about, I do, I've got this job that some of my tax money goes on that, oh no, oh no,
but then it's also about that feeling, isn't it? Sometimes the people that I've employed are
still doing some interesting good stuff, anyway, some of them are, that's another thing as well,
or they might be volunteering in a charity shop or something, some of them, that's another
thing, so you know, they're still doing something, but what I was going to say is that some people,
they really live behind their jobs, don't they? And they really faintly ask someone just because
they've got this job that they have, because of whatever it is, and some jobs that's like, okay,
you're a surgeon, maybe, and that's quite impressive in a way, because yes, you do your surgeon,
you help people when, yeah, you do things, or you're, or you're doing, or maybe, you're
maybe in a bill that's a sum extent, but I mean, some jobs are quite, are quite good in the way,
and other jobs are a bit like, well, yeah, you're doing that job, but it's not really that amazing,
is that what you want to be remembered for, in life where it's, you know, maybe that's, I think
probably what you meant as well, you know, some, do we meant?
Oh, so it's probably, jobs, people who employed to negotiate certain administrative
bureaucracies, and then to the day, they, it's become a necessary function, but it doesn't actually
achieve much if they simplified a whole lot of the rules and regulations, and
then a lot of that layer of, I think some jobs are just basically jobs, because, okay,
there's a reason to have them trying to expand, but not really that amazing, and all the,
and people take those jobs, because they need a job, and they've got more gear, they've got bills
to pay, and, you know, but when, when, when they dial, it's not really going to be remembered during
that. Yeah, it's right, it's nothing against people doing the jobs, I mean, it's a, it's a,
it's a job opening, and like you said, as I've got to get paid,
well, really, the scientists have achieved something amazing, and you've just made a, a vaccine
that kills something, or, or whatever it is, or, or had meant it some new invention, that's like,
wow, look at this. Yeah, but it, behind every one of those, I suppose, groundbreaking
inventions is probably thousands of people experimenting on other things that maybe don't,
make that breakthrough, but they all contribute to it, just that, you know, one person or one
group of people makes that, or breakthrough, what are, what are the, Edison, what did he experiment
a thousand times, before he found someone that, like, I like globally it worked.
There was a lot. Our time at Edison, I think it was. So, so you, that sort of stuff is,
even though it may not, it may not always produce something, but you've got to do some things
in order to get an overall result. But yeah, it sort of had to explain, but there's a lot of,
a lot of, what I would call non-productive activity going on, to cost money, and it's not
progressing with it. So, if it's my mum, or if it's, like, a lot of, and I cut off again,
I don't know if it's my, it might be, if it's me, because I think it has one of that earlier,
like, connection or mumble or, unless you stop chatting halfway through it.
Now, I think I've got my hand on the push-to-talk button on the space phone.
Very firmly. I may actually be you then, yeah, yeah, because if you go off, if you go off,
the button that stops you on the screen. Yeah, I'll keep an eye on my little icon to make sure it
stays blue. But yeah, it's a bit of, it's a bit of any involved topic. But my personal view is,
it needs to be a big focus on, I suppose, what I call productivity, but what's needed to be done,
and free up that, that particular. Yeah, interesting thing, though. I mean,
looking at Open Source again, because, you know, there's a API anyway, right? It's like,
it's like Open Source. Now, yes, there's certain paid jobs around, or to some extent,
in Google, maybe, or Connacle, or, well, well, that's some IBM now. But yeah, about that,
or IBM, let's say, Oracle, and the end Python X, who Oracle's on pin, Genux.
I believe that 80% or so is still in Google, I said as well, didn't I? And even Facebook's
saying that, Matt, or the Metacumple, because they're using Linux and things, and Twitter, or X,
maybe, and I don't want to call themselves these days. No, you know, all these companies
around a bit, or maybe just some company that sells pre-installed apps, laptops,
like Star Labs in the UK, more of those laptops now. But there's, what I was going to say is,
I think a lot of Open Source or free software, free as in software freedom, yeah. This would be
two camps here, two different slightly ethical camps, many West, the other thing. But I think,
there's about 80% of developers or contributors, as in graphics designers, and
documentation writers, and translators, and I mean, these people get overlooked quite a lot,
actually, depending on the project. They need marketing and translation, and documentation,
things usually as well, and quality insurance, testing people, and things as well,
to make it good, usually to have a good project. It's not just code code code and development,
but I think a lot of contributors in general are volunteers, hobbyists, but yeah,
but yeah, we're making, but yeah, there's some really great programs and things being made,
and what was interesting as well is in 20, oh, about eight years ago, I believe, yes, without
looking this up again, there was a thing, there was a major security bug suddenly that was found
in, I think it was OpenSSL, which was used for, and by a lot of websites, for encryption,
for example, online payments when you're paying with your card, and things like that. And then
suddenly it came out that there had been this bug in one version of OpenSSL, and I didn't know
it first, and it came out somehow, and it was like, oh no, because Apple, Google, Facebook,
whatever, a lot of companies were actually using websites that, I think, was OpenSSL, yeah,
were using this program, and that was an open source program, but then, what made it really
interesting as well was that this program was made, turns out, there was only about 10 developers,
I believe, of this program, but on top of that, it's some very clever people who've been used
part of whatever, but you know, it turned out, they're all volunteers as well, all hobbyists,
all volunteers, so, and then I believe that the companies were like, oh no, what's, what's,
something like this happens again, we need really big tech companies, we need to kind of collaborate
and work together maybe, and make sure that if anything like this ever happens again, that we can
kind of like help each other out or something, because that's the thing, you know, it's really
some really important program sometimes, when they come in person, but yeah, they're made by
volunteers and there's no paid developers, or any company behind them, it's just like, wow,
that's open source. That's often when the best products that come out is, and people are passionate
about something. Yeah, yeah, I've been going, that's the other thing as well, I've said that
somewhere as well, that's what I think as well, that's another selling point for open source
and then it's in desktop apps, or at least when people are willing to kind of understand and
maybe give it a try, because that's exactly what I thought when I got into this in like 2000,
and before as well, or as a 16, or 17, 16, 17 year old, and also being a general public license,
so, well, when you read, well, yeah, when you read a general public license, and all the,
in the Richard Stalman articles on the, glue.org, and then, or TNU.org, it could wake up new,
really, but TNU.org and then slash philosophy on the website, there's a disease articles
that Richard Stalman did about the full freedoms, why the code should be available, and all that
all that great stuff, some of them are really old articles now, there's some recent things,
but basically what we've got here is, we're using software for the most part, when we run something
like Ubuntu, or NorthDora, or Dabia, or Webadistro, somebody's on-boardy, there were running programs
that a lot of people that are very, very passionate have contributed code to, or maybe graphics,
or web, or as well, but, you know, code and in particular now, in this context, and a lot of
these people were volunteers, 80% or so, and, and exactly, and that's exactly it, and even with
like Chromebook and Google Chrome browser now, Google, like, clever in a way, because they released
the source code for Google Chrome as Chromium, and also the operating system, and Chromium OS,
and then guess what, loads of the volunteers are not being paid by Google, but lots of open
source like volunteers, for some reason, they decide to contribute to the Chromium project,
so the browser and the ChromOS, and then they, then Google kind of take it back, I believe, and do
a little bit of changing themselves, and a bit of rebranding, and then there we go, is Google Chrome,
and then also here's ChromOS for the Chromebook, which is quite clever in a way, but that's,
that's what happens. I wonder what these volunteers do, like, to get money, like,
wonder what their, their day jobs are? Well, yes, actually, that, that, that, that is that as well,
so, why there, from the past, was that certain people have, I mean, certain people, certain people
reluctantly will, our day job will work, actually, maybe more so, and then it probably happens now,
as well, really, but more so in the past, they would say, work, maybe for a five-story software
company in the day, doing some code there, for a job to make money, yeah, and then they're going
to come home, and then they do, and then instead of just watching TV, or whatever,
they go, and they go home, and then they're doing some open source code as well, on the same day,
and, yeah, I think that happens, still, at times, or, or, a project gets really popular,
as for the nation, except for, starts to become big enough, and suddenly, say, why the main
developers can actually work on this full time, as a natural paid job as well, and that's how,
that happens occasionally, with certain projects. I think it happened with something, not
UV pools, but, well, they'll sell something, I think that happens occasionally, but possibly,
you know, they get enough money coming in from somewhere, then they can actually work on this
full time, and then they do, and then they do. Yeah, as far as they get a name for themselves,
like, contributing to the projects in their own time, and then they, you could pick that by
somebody you can see the value in what they do. So, yeah, there's a lot of history with open
source as well, the way, you can look, you can look at, you know, you can look at when, some of
these programs came out, and be like, versions of, and it's like, well, wow, does that go back,
far back, or, I mean, I can go even further back than you, next, I'm sorry, the millux, actually,
because I can go, I can go, I'm doing a speech about the history of software, I do public speaking,
well, two of these features got two clubs around here, and, now, these are normal people,
so they didn't get too technical, but I want to do the history of computing and open source,
and, I mean, I didn't, and the second one I mentioned, that's so, when the Apollo goes
computing, or try to, but, because that's kind of interesting, set space and software in the moon,
that actually, you can go back to just, that was July 1969, when they apparently landed on
a moon, if I mean, if you believe that or not, it was black and white, that's another story,
or another topic, but, the, in the very same year, they released, it's out, I've found
this one, Google, or found the Google something, but they, it sounds like the very first
versions of Unix came out in December 1969, as well, but Unix was obviously proprietary,
but Unix has its American University links, and that was like the basis for the whole
D&U project, etc, and certain things that came out, and then, and Linux is, as they say,
a little Unix-like operating system or kernel, well, I'll see the kernel of the core,
and that's the same program, really, it's not really an operating system, the next, but,
if you know what I mean, but with the kernel and its other programs that I need, did you get
your operating system, although you don't need to do tools and Android, but you're doing some
of the other, on the desktop next, maybe, bless some of my days, other topics, but,
Unix goes back, it's not history here, that's what I meant, so like Unix, there's links to Unix,
in the UK, we have something called, well, not so much, no, well, but, well, there is
some of these computers around still, because they used to be something called the Acorn,
for example, I don't know if you ever heard of the Acorn.
Yeah, I've heard of Acorn, and we had one, I've heard of MicraB,
similar sort of thing, I think.
Good tap stuff, right, and there was the BBC, or whatever, the black and white
computer as well, wasn't it, yeah, and the Acorn was a bit slower, apparently, in the schools,
got rid of them, and it went on Windows PC, basically. However, what I found out,
the other, about a few years back now, because my mum's boyfriend, or whatever, he was into
there, he's into this, he's got some old stuff as well, but, turns out, they decided,
because Acorn was the operating system, was proprietary, closed source software,
and a lot of the programmes were made for it as well, closed source, but they basically
call it open source, the operating system, all from the most part, and the programmes,
got, a lot of the programmes got open source, although, although I had a story about
why the developers, who had died, did one of the programmes, and they really, really wanted
as an open source programme, so apparently, they approached a wife, someone, some developers,
or whatever, and we're like, look, can we have the right for this programme, can we get it,
can we get it open source, and the wife of this dead developer was like, yes, okay,
fine, yeah, you can have open source, and so they got this programme that they wanted.
So what's interesting as well is, because I lived near, well, I said, we were talking about
BAF earlier, and I said, I live by, it's other city called, I live by Bristol, I live by Bristol as well,
Bristol, BAF and Bristol, yeah, yeah, I think I went there, Bristol and BAF in the 70s,
I think he's been to BAF, yeah, yeah, I lived in BAF, and I'm pretty sure we went to Bristol,
obviously, about eight, eight or nine years old, so I don't remember too much,
well, no, but they're like I said, they're not too far away from each other, so actually,
there was a three-note living Bristol, two conferences, for three-note deal, I've seen that
when it closed down, there were problems and problems when two people were out, so I was good as well,
haven't been able to go to that when that was on, but what I was going to say is that,
there's actually a risk US out for a West event, which I didn't even know about until like four
or five years ago, because of the sky, they went down somewhere down the motorway, some hotel,
down Weber, and it was like okay, and the cards get air ready, and it was okay, but I was like
seen as one of the young, like 30s, so I haven't seen as one of the young guys there, because
a lot of them are like over 50 now that are into that, it's not all of them, but a lot of them are
like, I think like about 50 years, well, old now, and then they moved it to a hotel in Bristol
in 2019, I ended up going last, I'm going to say last year now, 2023, right, and it's
February or something, so that's coming up again, should be another event coming up, and I don't
know how many hardware myself, but can I emulate the Linux or in Linux windows or USB, do I use
BStick or something, there's an emulator, but I'll go to that again, I think, because why not?
But what's interesting is how that all became open source of the most part as well,
and I think that's the way to keep things alive as well as open source, ideally, because
if it's closed, then that's the problem with games when they become abandoned where as well,
because they could sort of die out, and if it's open source, you can do things and carry the
on and fix bugs and add new features and things. Yeah, I suppose that's the commercial world,
once it stops making money, they're going to come up with a way to get rid of it quickly.
Yeah, but that's, well, that's the thing, then, it's like, there's a lot of this, like, they call
it a random way, like computer games that have come out before, and they're not sold anymore,
and then it's like, well, they're still copyrighted, that's the thing. So the date is like, you know,
well, you're not even selling this anyway. So what's wrong if you just go and download it,
and start playing it somewhere, was it matter, but then something like that, but hang on, no,
but you should have paid or you will have paid, and it's copyrighted, and you know,
you could get into a debate, like if it should, or it could maybe just say, well, it's died,
so why not just open source it, why not release the code, and have it as an open source project,
but it seems to just let a lot of games and buy, like that. Yeah, I agree with that,
personally, but based on my experiences with that, at end of town, not on the software industry,
but different, once something is not profitable, or they're going to end of life, they won't even
talk about it. They say that anything, any discussion about that product is just a waste of time
and money, so I can see at their point of view would be, we'll just put it in an archive somewhere,
and forget about it, and if someone comes to them and just say, oh, can you open source it,
though, their view would be, we're not even going to spend any time thinking about it.
Yeah, but then it's like, well, the dams and where, okay, well, I mean, what's wrong with
downloading it then, playing it on something, I mean, that's just a bit, isn't it? I mean, you
can't buy it anymore anyway, so I feel like it'd be like, for the movie or something, you have to stop,
no, actually, that's, no, actually, that's not quite as case with movie, though, because all the
streaming services and stuff, they literally kind of end up on some streaming service, a lot of
things like that one, and no, I don't know, so there's too many of them over here, and America,
it seems as well, but that's another problem, definitely not the same, another different topic,
but I mean, yeah, streaming services, it's like Disney Plus, good Amazon, Prime, Netflix,
staying, we've got Fox, we've got Fox tell over here as well. What have you got Fox? Fox tell,
it's a romantic sporting, sporting platform. I don't think we have that, maybe it's Australia,
yeah, and then normally, you know, you're not missing out.
So over here, we've got like, I mean, there's some, there's some sport that gets shown on
the actual BBC and ITV, they're like, they're like normal channels that say that, I mean, standards
or channels, you know, like, there's going to be Euro 2024 in the summer, it's your summer now,
it's our winter, but in a sort of July time, there'll be Euro 2024, and there'll be Australian,
lower football on TV again, and I, and that'll be that, but that'll be shown on BBC 1 and ITV,
and like, the normal, like, we've got a single freebie where they have a TV licence because of the BBC,
they've got, which is a bit silly, if they always agree with that, but don't get the sort of standard
channels, you know, like, country has its sort of standard channels, but then we have
sky sports here, which you pay for, it's a premium thing, you might get a deal somewhere,
but you pay for that, and they, they generally have a lot of content from all over the place,
there's also a BT Sport thing, or they might, there's a, oh well, they're right, yeah,
a BT Sport, or a, where they call it now, again, you pay for that, and, and yeah, it's just
too much of this, and it's like, who's got the biggest money sometimes, the Disney, they've just
bought, you know, they brought a fox, they brought marble, they've got Pixar, they've got,
so I think National Geographic, they've got, I mean Disney Plus is quite good, really,
for content, what's on there, not just the children's content, but the, like, sort of teenagers,
adults, whatever, but just buying out all sorts of things, and, but the problem is, it's like,
it's like the streaming services, wars now, to some extent, as well, and as a consumer,
it's hard, it's a bit difficult, suddenly, because it might be that certain programs are not on
particular streaming service, and you just have to pay for the other one, if you get all, you know,
and it's like, there's already four or four, and I don't want everything, you know.
Yeah, you could spend a lot of money, if you have all of them on multiple, we've got
Netflix and Stay in here, but I've very, really watched it so many, yeah.
Yeah, I've got other people in my family.
How does the Disney Plus, again, they're wasting money, most of them, does he? That's my,
yeah, he's got, you have to learn to unsuscribe, or things, or realise that, no, actually, I'm not
only watching this, really, this month, so, can I get out of that?
But I've got normal TV, well, not some of the premium or sky stuff as well, but I don't know,
and I kind of got off TV anyway, nothing's I want to watch really, but it's not really,
it's not, I like to watch a movie sometimes as well, but I kind of, I do either thing,
I don't know, I do things a bit, and I might do whatever, but I've probably seen some music,
anyway, but I have a podcast, I listen to two of your old ones before I came on this,
like, yeah, two days ago, but I've probably seen some music, or if I'm listening to stuff now.
Yeah, I've watched a bit of YouTube, I've watched Free to Wear TV for about 15 years,
watch YouTube, podcasts, and various podcasts, mix them up a bit, but like I said, I've
watched Free to Wear TV for over 15 years, but under your BBC, you guys have a license,
we don't have that choice, we, it's called ABC here, Australian Broadcasting Commission.
Yes, that's what I said as well, so it's a bit of a silly one, because I think it applies for
some people say, yeah, but I'd never watched BBC, why do I need a TV license, I just stream
something on YouTube, but I think they got, that's really stupid, so that even if you just
stream off YouTube, some, I think it's more for the light TV though, they say that certain things,
I think, yeah, if you, definitely, if you watch something live, you're supposed to have a TV license,
really, I don't have to have a BBC channel, but then some people say, what would I watch in YouTube,
or maybe you can, what, or maybe you can watch you,
yeah, it's crazy, maybe you can watch YouTube still, and Netflix, just about, but certain things,
it's like, what you, you make me pay, could BBC, even though I barely watch the BBC, or, or,
but I never choice, just ABC is funded from just general tax revenue, so,
yeah, that's the same with BBC, I think it's the same, probably, similar system, the ABC,
Australia said Australia and broadcasting, yeah. Yeah, it's a good government funded,
but it wouldn't bother me that it's, it's become a political platform, and it's very
bold for us, so you pay with the, yeah, the RTV like that, and I think it sounds like you've
got the, basically, the same system, but obviously you've got ABC, we've got BBC, but it's basically
the same in this context of the licenses and who pays, and what you've got to pay for, it sounds
like it's very similar, and I mean, I'm lucky in a way, because I'm in a place where there's
other flats, but for some reason in this building, there's like a communal TV license, even so,
and it does apply, and I think it's actually my, the company that owns this building that actually
pays for it as well, so that's nice, that normally they're not, they're not, I mean, they're not that cheap
TV licenses, so, so, what are they cost roughly? Well, I don't, well, I think, I'm not sure
that looking now, and what I think would be about 70, so maybe 100 or so a year actually,
and maybe more than that, depends a bit, I think. It would be okay, so it's not down, probably
similar to whether you pay over there, I would have thought. Well, we don't pay explicitly,
it's just part of general tax. Oh, so it's no more for six months, yeah, this is really every year,
there was a debate about how we should maybe get rid of the TV license now, because of various
reasons, including your people that want to watch BBC, and that's about it, and it's a bit unfair
having them paid for it, but I do. There's only so, but then there's no pop adverts on BBC,
on the other hand, get all set for their own shows briefly between shows, and I'll see if there's
no, if they're getting no money for the TV license, then it could be like the other ones, the ITB
internal four and five, where you get adverts. Saying that with adverts, even the streaming platforms
and all that, I've figured out that obviously people want to skip adverts, so they're like, okay,
you can skip adverts, but it's going to cost you like five pounds a month to be able to do it on
Netflix or Wams and Primals on that. It's a little money, isn't it? There's big money in
ads and products. Yeah, but there's suddenly money in allowing people to skip the adverts as well,
as long as they pay something for the privilege. You speak to just the calls on box and skip the adverts,
and now they're restricting certain things, and the Netflix maybe as well, and the sky,
you want to skip adverts, okay, although you're going to be paying for that, the privilege
like a few pounds a month for something. Yeah, I don't know, I don't watch anything with ads.
I watch YouTube with ads, but anything on Netflix or Stan, if they start putting ads in the
middle of the show, I'll just turn it off and stop watching it. Yeah, well, yeah, yeah,
sometimes it's annoying on Instagram, but I know, you start on YouTube.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
or cast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our
things.net. On this otherwise status, today's show is released on our creative commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
