Episode: 4452
Title: HPR4452: Turn Coffee Into Code - Slogans from Tech(Companies, App, People)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4452/hpr4452.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:49:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4452 for Tuesday the 26th of August 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Turn Coffee into Code Slogans from Tech Companies, App People.
It is hosted by Semlas M. St. Louis and is about 8 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is 5 Slogans Interesting from Software I Like.
Here with you is zone 2 and Parampompom and I'm happy to be with you Parampompom to talk
about Slogans from Tech Companies, App People, Private Coffee.
From the website, private.coffee is a non-profit association dedicated to support in privacy
and digital sovereignty.
We provide privacy respecting alternatives to common services, educate users about digital
privacy and advocate for a more private and secure internet.
Close quotes.
I came to it while searching for a matrix home server in joinmatrix.org.
This Llogan for private coffee is open search software is best served hot.
Private.coffee.
Fluffy chat.
From the website, Fluffy chat is an open search non-profit and cute matrix client written
in Flutter.
I don't know why open search software sometimes focuses on the language, but let's continue.
The go of the app is to create an easy to use instant messenger which is open search and accessible
for everyone.
Close quotation.
The most pleasant messenger I've ever used.
Beautiful and that's the meaning of cute.
Can be used on the web or app.
Once I remember the developer, Creel's Shen, I think on Macedon, said some users dot cute
was not a professional word, but for him it was a way to convey the meaning of beautiful.
So this Llogan continues as the cutest messenger in matrix site.
Fluffy chat.
I am.
So a talk blog.
From the website, writing is about information security, cryptography, software, and humanity
from a member of the furry fandom.
Close quotation.
I respected men that studies and works with cryptography.
Among other themes, he analyzes messengers and protocols in general and explains sometimes discovering
grave vulnerabilities.
His posts recommending to not use session made the app developers itch.
They responded to so attack on their social media, without mentioning his name only quote
ablugger.
Close quote.
Sailing that the points raised were unfounded.
Llogan, if not simply the title, it is the old moments and the old is an Asian white dog
wild dog.
Site, so a talk dot blog.
For the two from the website.
So it's come to this.
You've met us since 2001.
For the two dot org has worked to provide interested folks with free access to communication
and collaboration services in a mixet Linux BSD environment.
We focus on technical transparency, user privacy, and free speech with a dash of cipher
punk and hetero computing for good measure.
Close quotation.
It's like the private coffee we've seen before in first place.
I discovered this one first looking for a matrix home server to try.
This for the two has the advantage of having WhatsApp bridge.
And so I wanted to present this one, but no slogans for it.
So I made a concession not as Logan, but the nonprofit corporation that operates 42.
The name is Alconputers Art Brilliant Inc.
Site 42.org.
And Frugalware Linux in Memorium.
I loved this distribution.
I felt the king on the hills with it, with a lot of software various to use and very
stable.
It's still in my initial enchantment with Linux, I felt very well using it.
And also with a name that resembled Slackware.
From the website that's still on the air, even though the last post is from 2018, it says
quote, Frugalware is a general purpose Linux distribution.
It's designed for intermediate users who are not afraid of text mode.
We try to make Frugalware as simple as possible while not forgetting to keep it comfortable
for the user.
We try to ship fresh and stable software as close to the original source as possible,
as in our opinion, most software is the best essays and doesn't need patching.
Close quotation, slogan, let's make things frugal, site frugalware.org.
Those are some that come from what I use are used and that they separated to talk to
you all.
You may find around some developers with this one quote, transforming coffee into code
and code.
Couture, I only don't remember one specifically that says so, here with you is or was
and one, and I thank you for listening, bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Posting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our things.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
