Episode: 4434
Title: HPR4434: Newsboat part 2 - Podcasts and Youtube
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4434/hpr4434.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:39:23

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,434 for Thursday the 31st of July 2025, today's
show is entitled NewsBoot Part 2 Podcasts and YouTube.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 7 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Archer 72 talks about podcasts and YouTube subscriptions in NewsBoot and
a quick tip.
Hello, this is Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, I touch on the items in my URL list for NewsBoot.
This will include podcasts and YouTube channels.
First up is GNU World Order, where a tattoo goes through every package in the Slackware repository.
Next up from the other side of the network is Tuxjam, Tuxjam Uncut and the Bugcast.
On Tuxjam, the hosts talk about their latest Linux projects and add in some music from
Creative Commons.
And on the Bugcast, Dave the Love Bug hosts the show along with Caroline to bring Creative
Commons music.
For Hacker Public Radio, I have the Future Feed and the Two-Week Feed, the Commons
Feed and a part on the Archive.org for HBR Amateur Radio shows.
Under other tech podcasts, I have the Ask Noah Show, which they talk about everything
that people thought couldn't be done on Linux and this is a weekly call and show where
collars ask questions about how to do everything in Linux.
Next is the U-Random Podcast, where Lyle, Taj and Pokey banter back and forth about
various topics, some are Linux and some are movies and there's a lot of Star Wars.
The latest addition to my tech podcast is Linux Matters from Ubuntu.social.
For the next section, I have YouTube channels.
First is Luke Smith and I pretty much keep this one in my feed because he has talked in
the past about them and other command line tools.
Then we have the channel for our very own Scotie, some guy on the internet who demonstrates
tips on Thunderbird that he has used in Hacker Public Radio shows.
Next there is Derek Taylor from DistroTube, who has Linux, DistroViews, News and Opinions
and Tutorials and of course he includes a bit of him, which I like to use.
Then there is Network Chuck, who loves information technology, whereas very pie projects in hacking.
Next is Jeremy Fielding, who loves mechanical engineering and electrical engineering and
has some projects on large scale robotics.
As a side note, I thought it was kind of funny that Mr. Fielding likes to work with electric
motors and motors have fields.
It's like he was meant to work in this area.
Then there is ElectroBoom, an Iranian, Canadian, electrical engineer and comedian who apparently
likes to remind us that electricity hurts where he shocks himself just about every video.
It makes it look like it's on accident.
Next is Gardner Bryant.
He used to go by the Linux Gamer and talks about Linux, video games and online privacy.
After that is Hack5, it's a security show and the creators, they are the creators of the
Wi-Fi pineapple, US rubber ducky and more.
Now there are two by Jeff Kearling.
One is the main channel and he listens himself as an author developer, maker, fan of Raspberry
Pi and other single boarding computers.
Then there is Level 2 Jeff, which is the same Jeff Kearling but more advanced topics.
After that is LGR or Lazy Game Reviews and it covers retro gaming and computing and
retro computer.
This is followed by Linus Tech Tips.
They have reviews, engineering projects and news.
Then there is the lock picking lawyer who points out weaknesses and defects in physical
security locks.
Followed by the modern vintage gamer, whose focus is on modern and retro tech gaming.
Just I have Peter Pacticus and he has a very collection of project videos from model
railways to Raspberry Pi.
Then we have the hated one, creating video essays on privacy, monopoly power and corruption.
Followed by Typecraft, whose main focus is on NeoVem.
The next few are for Mrs. Archer who searched Linux one time in YouTube and got a few results.
They keep coming to her inbox.
First one is Chris Titus Tech, talks about uploading windows and learning Linux videos.
Then there is Switch to Linux, helping people make the Switch to Linux based on desktop
system and getting real work done.
After that is Windows Computers and Technology, channel run by PC enthusiast.
The last two are the Linux experiment, just Linux desktop news, simple tutorials, application
spotlights and opinion pieces.
And the last one is Michael Tunnell spelled with two Ls at the end, host of this week in
Linux weekly news show.
Before I leave, there is one little tip I have if you want to have URLs in your lists
that are of one subject and you want to keep them separate.
You just type NewsBootBase-U and the name of the URL list and I was going to start one
four trains and see where it goes.
That's all I have for now.
This has been Archer 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
If you feel free to record a show of your own as a response or as any topic there is
an interest to hackers, goodbye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listening like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
or cast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
