Episode: 4054
Title: HPR4054: CyberPunk 2077
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4054/hpr4054.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:04:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,054 for Thursday the 15th of February, 2024.
Today's show is entitled Cyberpunk 2077.
It is hosted by Daniel Person, and is about seven minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, my experience playing Cyberpunk 2077.
Hello, hackers!
In this podcast, I'm going to talk about the game.
I have heard that others talked a lot about what they have been gaming lately and what is going on in that space.
And also talking about how different computer games work and so on.
I'm very much into these kind of experiences in games.
I love the really good experience, rich environment, a large world.
But I don't really like these kind of large world environments where you don't really have any objectives.
So if you just send me into a large world with a bunch of these kind of small things and not really have a good story arc,
then I'm just going to end up not playing it.
So I played through Dragon Age and Dragon Age 2, which I really liked.
And then I came to Dragon Age in Cushition, for instance.
And when I got a horse in that game and realized that this is just another Zelda game,
pretty much Zelda Link Awakening or whatever it's called.
The latest one or tiers of the Kingdom or something like that.
I was really put down and said, OK, I will not play this anymore because I know that it will be such a grind and not that much story.
I need to do a lot of work in order to get that extra information out.
Which is really nice with one of the games I played during my holiday break, which was Cyberpunk.
Cyberpunk has a lot of these extra game elements to them.
You have one thing where you shave down these kind of cyber villains.
So Cyberpunk is set in the future, 2077, where people pretty much have merged with machines.
And in some cases, people have gone crazy and you will shave down these crazy people and try to help them pretty much get back into society.
There is a bunch of different side quests where you find somebody and talk to them and help them in different ways.
You can go on a treasure hunt, you find a map piece somewhere and then you go to one coordinate and find more information and then to the next one and so on.
Which could be really fun.
A lot of different driving things that you needed to do.
Just pick up a car at one point and then just drive it to a different point.
And now that I have played through the full game and have done everything, I could feel that it's really just enjoyable to go into the world and drive around.
It's one of those games that are beautiful and rich and really interesting to just live in.
Driving around, stopping somewhere and taking a cup of coffee for instance, could be as enjoyable as playing the rest of the game.
But it has a great story with a great story arc as well. It's very mature.
So there is a lot of mature concept in the game.
So I think if you are not an adult, you should not play it.
It can be very rough at some places and so on.
But I still think that is a very rich story.
You can start in three different positions.
Either you are a nomad starting in the desert and then arriving to the city.
Or you could be a person that is waking up and living on the streets pretty much and then rising up from there and becoming a person of notice.
Or you could be one that has a desk job and then just stops working and then goes out as a bounty hunter.
So the game is pretty much you are a bounty hunter and then goes around doing jobs for hire.
And the jobs could be anything from going to a place and finding a thing to going to a place and helping people.
And the story arc is interesting because you start with doing a job.
A particular thing happens to you which is pretty much that's up to full game.
Which does that you need to do a bunch of things in order to survive.
So you are working for your survival in the game because of the first event that happens in the game.
And then by the end of the game there is a really good ending or multiple endings depending on how you actually play your game.
And if you are running into the DLC which I also have run through and done everything, there is more endings and more things to find out there.
And in the DLC there is these kind of objectives that are either you are a detective in one case so you try trying to figure out a crime.
And then you in another case you are going and impersonating of this particular person in order to change the power dynamic in the city and so on.
So there is a bunch of different interesting story arcs going on in the game and I just ate it up.
I just went through it and played all of it and I really like this setting this game and this kind of storytelling.
I don't think I have done all the side quests yet but it doesn't really matter.
I have gotten all the story I need from this game so in my mind I am done with it but I could just pick it up and drive around as I said because I really like the city vibe and the place of this game.
And driving is actually super enjoyable.
I didn't like the driving from the beginning. It was really hard to understand how to drive and the car that you get from the beginning is a really bad one.
But if you get a better car, a better motorbike, it's actually enjoyable to drive around.
So that was Cyberpunk. Have you played it? Did you like it? Leave a comment about that or send me an email if you want.
I would love to know what you think about the game or if you have played it or if you don't play these games at all.
And I hope to see you in the next episode.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
