Episode: 4324
Title: HPR4324: 24-25 New Years Eve show episode 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4324/hpr4324.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:07:40

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4324, for Thursday the 27th of February 2025.
Today's show is entitled, 24-25 New Year's Eve Show Episode 2.
It is hosted by Honki Megu and is about 107 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HBR community comes together to say Happy New Year.
Get this first shelf put on, and maybe I'll try and print it again.
What are you drilling there?
Oh, I'm just adding this shelf to this tenet rack.
Okay.
I'll show it to you in a second.
Oh wait, I don't have a video on it because it's my mobile, I know I'm on mumble.
I've really printed this tenet server rack, and I'm just adding a shelf to it right now.
The shelf didn't quite finish printing, but I think it's still usable the way that it is.
The really tall thin print, so it kind of just snapped off on the last portion of it.
What I heard, you're talking about something pretty printing that didn't get quite through the end.
Yeah, it almost printed, but didn't.
Yeah, it was right there in the last ten percent, fifteen percent.
So I don't have the back supports for it, but I think it's sturdy enough that that won't matter,
but it's definitely...
I wanted to print it to make sure I had the depth correct, and that's it's not going to give me that.
Okay, that's it.
I have to try something else.
Pretty sure it's just going to happen again on a filament.
If you try this, print supports wider on both sides.
It's actually a base support issue, and like I was saying earlier, I can't add a brim,
which is what I would normally do, because there isn't enough room on the print bed for it.
There are a couple of the other ones that I'm going to print next, or about half width, half depth.
So I really wish that a finished print would add a lot more structural support.
He's holding up a ten-inch rack, which is... is it all 3D printed?
Yes, the entirety of this is 3D printed.
Most of it is someone else's design.
All I designed was the connectors here, so that I could extend it from a 4U to an 8U.
Do you happen to have a link to that so that people are following along with it?
Yeah, I'll take a couple of notes.
I'll describe it, so it looks a little bit like a rectangular, would it be rectangular?
I did include the Geek Pie cabinet that kind of inspired this.
Okay, so it's like there's a lot more than it looks.
It's got angle pieces going up to a place on the top.
Pretty much.
Check my one tab, because I stored some of it there.
The one you blank...
This isn't me, as wide as the normal...
Right, because it's ten inches wide, that I can verify.
And the normal one would be fun.
Well, a lot of them are 19, or your smaller racks, or some of the other racks, yeah.
So there's the one you blank, rack rail.
Yeah, the 19 inches, the ancient radio standard that is World War II or before.
Before it comes from the telcos, I'm not mistaken.
And here is the rack rails that I started the front with, and then I have not posted the connector that I made.
It's really simple, I mean, it's just a U-connector.
I made an tinker-cat, but it's, what, 12 of those for you 3D printable rack rails that I posted.
And some bolts holding it all together, and then I printed two of the one you blanks,
act as bracers, one across the top, one across the back.
And then the shelves are supposed to provide the rest of the stability for it.
Just this one didn't finish printing.
I don't know if I can get one that will finish printing within the meantime.
I guess since I just want it for stability, that I could cut out like the whole middle section.
You need to kind of, of course, to get the depth right, just to get the depth right.
Well, like have a kind of rectangle with the next in the middle.
Yeah, well, no, basically cut out like the whole middle here and just have the sides.
I can do that.
The sides.
The sides won't do all for only support.
Yeah, but it will tell me if my depth is correct.
Good point.
Well, if I do end up buying some aftermarket parts for it, I know that they will fit.
Yes, another advertising opportunity for a heck of a review.
Yeah, then I can, if I leave it spaced correctly in tinker-cat, I can use that open space
to design different things, different holders for different items,
and maybe even make it so that they bolt together here.
In case you didn't get to see it, folks, yes, that is correct.
Yeah, talk a mumble video here.
It's weird, but it works.
Yes, you hear on mumble, but you see on here.
Because we're hackers.
All right, wish I could stick around longer, but I do have to get going.
Joe, just one question.
Yeah.
On the mintcast, I think now and then you mentioned that you have a channel on YouTube or such,
but then when I go to the website of Mintcast, I can only see your email address.
How is this nowadays?
Because I'm still around April 23 in the mintcast.
Hold on, I'll bring it up, and I will post a link for it.
Yeah, put it into the show notes.
We'll see if we miss anything.
Oh, send me a link for the show notes, then.
On the main HPR website, what do you want me to do?
Post it.
Tattooed on my head.
Yes.
Why is it not already tattooed on your head?
All right.
Show notes.
That didn't take me to the show notes.
It took me to the stream.
Show notes.
Okay.
There is the mintcast link, and I will copy the two thing of verse links and paste them
here as well.
Thank you.
All right.
I will be back on later, but I have to go see your doctor.
If I don't see you, nice to meet you.
Thanks very much for all the stuff that you do.
It's good tarting.
See you next year.
Ken, how is the recording going?
She was fine.
Don't jinx it now.
Tattooed.
Yeah, exactly.
Although I'm touching the key at desk, I'm wondering how much actual wood is in there.
I'm not going to go over and touch something that I know that.
It's not a large piece, but a lot of wood at one point.
Indeed.
I might ask people to occasionally paste in a mumble chat into the show notes.
Yeah.
Good idea.
Without the enter leaving that stuff.
You mean in the chat of the mumble room?
Yeah.
Sometimes people put links into the chat of the mumble room when they should be in the
etherpad, but I paste it in some of the stuff into the etherpad.
Yeah, I just opened the etherpad.
So I paste the link over here because it looks at the first link who says on the website
from HPR looks like it is the streaming wood, but it's just a stream.
Then a little bit lower is the show notes coming.
Correct.
Correct.
Is it either pad on the website for HPR?
Yeah.
I'll paste the link here.
Does I think I put an Amazon link there up earlier?
Yeah.
You may have done this.
Yeah, I put the Amazon link, a copy then links from the mumble chat into the etherpad.
So we're sorted.
Anyway, we have minions for this.
I'm not making any friends.
Okay, what's next?
My HPR thing, I need to fix the tags, the subtitles are done, and now I need to extract images
from the etherpad.
Do you have the video, the Jitsi active, on your site?
Yes.
So if you join Jitsi, mumble for the audio or Jitsi for the video.
So I'll just have my webcam up like I normally would have in the meeting in a normal day.
Yeah, my desktop doesn't have one.
Well, I would have one in the...
Yes.
To me, to attach, but if it then will work with my computer right away.
Yeah, probably.
I don't know.
Usually when I work for the company, then everything is on Windows.
Five seconds ago, I said what I was going to be fixing next.
What was that?
Anyone paying attention?
Extracting the images, yes, very good.
Thank you.
One thing I have done is turned the processing script into functions.
So I can work on something as a unit, which definitely helps.
Did you paste the text from the chat with intention into the Jitsi, or is this?
Yes.
I stripped out, they connected, disconnected, but people have links and stuff in there in the chat.
If you don't like anything just that it's useful for the guys.
HP.Craft and some guy in the internet volunteered in the past to do it.
And I'll also run Whisper over the transcripts.
Because sometimes people would say, oh, I put the link to this into the list, into mumble chat.
And we don't have it in the show notes.
And nobody knows what the link was because...
Yeah.
Yeah, I see.
Makes sense.
The assumption is, if you're on this, you know, everything you say can and will be used against you in the court at all.
Or there's not that in the podcast.
Wow, Ken, is this your...
You have to turn off audio on the stream, on the Jitsi stream.
Did you only, yeah?
No bother.
Took me a while to get my head around the zone.
At the bottom is to control not into window where you are.
Hello.
Ken, sorry, I have to look for the camera later on.
Is this your lab with a lot of little stuff on the wall?
Yeah.
Wow.
So, people watching this is my office.
And as I already said earlier, I used Teams on my Linux machine.
And it doesn't allow you to blur your background so people are commenting about how messy my place was.
So, I redid it, starting over here.
Let's do the tour.
I might actually put some screenshots into the shots.
Here is a...
And we were talking about this.
This is planned support for outside and a velcro my kit to that.
So, my router requires network routers.
HDMI switches.
It's got the boxes for work.
Your Fritzbox is hanging there.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, that's one of the first boxes I have three of them.
And then underneath, down underneath this is...
Down underneath this is also another one of these with my Raspberry Pi.
And then on the floor is the UPS and a Raspberry Pi with two hard disks.
And this is my monitor which controls but switches so I can pick this setup for work.
Or I can switch to any of the kit here.
I've got a long two or three meter HDMI cable which I can run to them.
I have keyboards and mice here that I can connect into the Raspberry Pi's or laptops or whatever.
I have to be working on if necessary.
Underneath the TV which is on the swivel in and out.
I have...
And this metric thing allows me to have four screens at once or just one or stuff like that.
Underneath that, I've got some tools.
A tape measure with inches and feet, small little hammer, spur-level pliers, snipe nose pliers, some small tip screw drivers,
a snips and electrical snips and electrical stripper.
Oh, there's my velcro.
I roll the velcro for a velcro and the stuff I pull off.
A roll of a kitchen towel, a temperature that's gone.
How are your Raspberry Pi's going?
Exactly.
So this is an oscilloscope you have there?
Yeah, I'll get to that.
Above that, I have all the components.
So I've got a one, two, three, five racks of four by one, two, three, four, five, seven, eight, coffee holes.
All of them are a QR code to a local website that I run that I can find out what the component is and get the components numbers.
Of them, that's mostly integrated circuit rectifier style.
It's that sort of thing.
This is resistors, potentiometers, fuses.
These are capacitors mostly.
And then the other one that for fourth one is
Arduino ESP32 modules I use up mostly.
And then over there is like bits and blobs like screws underneath that leads for the is there IKEA rail.
These are clicking things that you can get from IKEA.
And they're, I'll just point to one of them over here.
They click into this garden plant holder thing and can hang cables that look really handy.
You just hang your, you've been a cable like that.
Yeah, everything out of the way.
And when it gets to be a mess, I tie everything away.
I also keep my head in behind it.
I keep my HDMI adapters.
And I have like a a photo frame shelf.
That's it.
Some of the keep HDMI adapters and rest computers and stuff on it.
So that's next to the TV.
I've got two shelves.
One has got a, that's a RF signal.
Yeah, tiny, tiny spectrum analyzer.
Then I've got a bit school.
I'm kind of.
So let's go type thing on my crometer.
That one is a another.
Oh, that's a logic analyzer.
This is a RF.
Do you stop speaking or?
Yeah, it is a.
Or I can't remember the.
It's for checking antennas.
The response of antennas.
So similar to the other one.
The reception.
How good the reception is or.
Or the sense of sensitivity.
The feedback and what they.
Is where the.
It does a queue.
A queue chart or the antenna.
So I'm just absolutely blanky.
Did you build that up because of the of the ham radio thing you have done?
Or was already partial.
Partially there before.
The frequency analyzer I had before,
but most of it is for the ham radio stuff.
Then next to that we have this one.
I've got all day screw drivers and.
Let's see.
I'll move over a little bit more.
This one has got screw drivers and all the weird tips that you need.
And the spudgers and stuff.
Forget them to stuff.
My friendly thing of tux.
A vernier calipers.
For measuring stuff.
Small scales for weighing stuff.
Bluetooth speaker with a penguin on top of a component tester,
which I got.
And then battery adapters for power feeds.
Next that screw drivers.
Next that is another rack for holding my cables about bits and bubs.
Underlinked that is a raggle DS1054Z.
So let's go, which I got an offer.
And next that is a unit that I built for.
Out of the power box for measuring current voltage.
You put in current and it can measure.
Measure what you're sending in and what you're using.
There's next to that is the adjustable power supply,
which I usually feed into this into the box that I was talking about.
I've got a cheap full craft.
The digital bullet meter, which is kind of kind of nice underneath that.
I got a soldering a little desk thing with two shelves of soldering iron.
Tux penguin has now fallen back.
Cutting board where I'll just do some work.
This is the server for the, it's going to replace this one over here,
which is currently serving the HBO CDN.
I got a small handheld radio spare H2 Zoom,
a cup fold with my Linux cup from O'Reilly's.
I got that back in 90s when I went to the US.
And there was a Linux meeting presentation introduced in this new concept of Linux.
What else to have?
I had first aid station and a fan that I got one of the local pound shops
for extracting fumes over on soldering.
I've got a whiteboard up.
Then I've got two shelves, which I've got loads of bits and bobs.
There's a whole box of homes, home automations still,
which I haven't got around to making components that I haven't got around to making.
Installation tape, various different colors, a box of fans for some reason,
RF components that I've made three different Morse code switches,
which I haven't used cause earlier on.
In the other drawer, I've got three different frequency counters for some reason.
I know the reason because I got them for free.
And then I've got energy monitoring stuff, which I still need to put in,
but that's a project that actually won't be happening.
I've got two Raspberry shakes, which were, which I was using,
but because we're replacing the floor and bottom of the back.
And then I've got some bold crafting or tracing electrical wires
within the house that you plug in when you notice in the socket
and then you can go back to the switch and find out what it is.
I have a new dead one.
I've got measuring, and I've got a RF measuring, although that's a toy, to be honest.
And then I've got a box of other components.
A lot of them are still in the bag for projects that I would like to do,
but have them done.
On top of that, I keep my hardest, you know, the backup ones that I do my backups on physically just touched.
In the drawer here, under the stairs, you have to see under the stairs.
I have a printer, a brother, I've done a show about that,
the label printer, USB cables, wires, RF stuff, USB devices,
HDMI stuff, Raspberry Pi stuff, and down various different hardware box
for when I'm soldering and a box for when I'm doing Ethernet.
And then above the printer there's a paper for laminates, paper, spare paper,
and spare ink to fill my continuous ink refill system.
And that's on the ground.
I have a UPS to mention that.
And I've got an old analog oscilloscope.
What is the UPS for?
Is it not so stable?
Where you live for?
Not as it's just for the Raspberry Pi's, the pen and the asset is power.
So usually the loss of power is as a result of me unplugging something.
Okay, so it's about the same situation as in Switzerland.
It's quite stable.
We've had, last year we've had a few outages of that was because
they were upgrading the local central station, which is good because as a result of that upgrade,
I was able to get them to put in three phase power.
And rather than having to wait the year and a half, that was normal.
They had it done in six days.
I still have so much so that I've got my meter cast changed.
Am I electrical catalyst changed?
The house didn't have three wires.
My house was from...
Well, the house had a three phase cable coming in.
It wasn't normal for everybody to have three phase power.
Interesting.
Okay.
A lot of people have three phase, not everybody.
The way I looked when I did research on us, what they do is the roll-out through...
ever since the 70s, I think.
Probably the 80s here.
My house was built in 19...
Actually, 1895, we saw the builders had written on the roof on one of the beams.
And since then, it was redone in the late 80s.
So, I guess, then they ran in a new cable.
And that luckily was a three phase cable.
Was it attached on the other side?
No, the only one phase was attached.
Interesting.
So then when they went to enable us, they only needed to enable us on that side.
And then enable us your trousers.
It was literally hours of work.
Now, I'm totally puzzled when I see all the equipment you have
because I was it about a year ago when you were fixing a Christmas light for a friend of yours
where you attached something.
And the way you were talking about it and so on, it sounded you were not so...
how to say, not so certain what you're doing.
And this is going to turn out right.
But when I look at it...
Yeah, I don't know if you...
Just because I only guitar doesn't mean I play a guitar.
Yeah.
Very important one.
I had to be honest with the oscilloscope.
I have had plans to do a lot of stuff when I usually use the voltmeter
because I'm terrified to blow it off because it's such a nice piece of cake.
You can blow it up basically.
I mean, as long as you're not starting to measure power.
Yeah, as long as you don't do the thing that you shouldn't do that you wouldn't learn after the time.
Yeah, so...
But as I said, my youngest has gone to...
You haven't heard, but it was on the show.
My youngest has gone into care, so...
I have a full-time job.
I have a full-time job.
Didn't do stuff related to them.
And then a full-time job doing hatred or stuff.
So, hobbies.
It's all nice and everything, but I don't get to it.
Too many other things, keeping you busy.
And technically, it changes from time to time because...
I have a list of projects and rewiring the house is a big one.
So, when we bought this house, it was like a mess.
We completely rebuilt it.
And then we re-did a lot of the wiring.
And then recently, after 20 years, actually, we extended the back.
And put in more circuits.
And then I had them change the major cabinet.
Yeah, it's safe.
But it's not like you open it up and you go, wow, that's a cool thing.
So, one of the projects has always bugged me about the house.
After the house we were done, that hasn't been fixed properly.
But now we have to have better sauna.
So, we want to have three-phase gun down to the sauna.
And for that, then we need three-phase in the house.
So, we've got three-phase in the house.
And then we were kind of surprised that it was going to be so quick.
Just come in.
Oh, yeah, it's no problem.
So, in the new year, we'll be having...
I was thinking of doing it myself.
Well, I will probably run the cables myself.
You mean to attach the solar yourself?
No, sauna.
What's that?
sauna.
Oh, sauna.
We would say sauna.
Oh, okay.
Oh, yeah, this one, you need a...
You need a electrical heat.
Oh, yeah.
You need some power there.
Yeah, do so.
So, and I'll also run...
I also have ram cables for the solar panels if ever we get them or when we get them.
So, that bit I might do myself, but the actual rewiring of the cabinet while technically I could do it.
And probably based on my qualifications, I've been really allowed to do it.
Oh, you can do it, but you are not allowed to attach it to the final power and the electrician would come over and...
You need to start to find the electrician, blah, blah, blah.
In theory, but a lot of people don't listen to that.
I'm also thinking, if I have all the kit in and I tell them exactly what I want,
I bought all the bits that I want.
So, I've got...
I've found two side units that will fit either side of my current cabinet and from the same making model.
So, they'll...
It'll look like one continuous unit and that will double my capacity because it's a bit cramped at the minute.
And then it'll also free up the cables so that I can...
I can run the cables and niches or neatly.
It's kind of expensive.
My parents replaced the panel at one time, but then they were...
Because of the heater, they replaced the heater from oil to electric.
And then for the whole pile, they charged something like...
Well, I told them to get a second offer, but they finally paid like four or five tasks, five grand for the...
It looks nice in the end, but...
I would want to...
We got quotes for eight thousand for this.
Well, even.
And that was...
Okay, you need to news, whoever's joined, they have some news.
Okay, the news.
So, yeah, eight thousand, but it'll be a lot...
That was also digging the trench and bits and bobs.
So, I got...
And buying the cable, the cable is hugely expensive.
Yeah, copper is not for free.
No, I get...
I got 80 meters of cable, and it cost me like 1,500...
No, around about 1,000, of course.
80 meters of...
80 meters was actually more expensive than getting a roll of 100 meters, so I got 100 meters of cable.
And because of the RF, because of the radio stuff,
you have to keep the RF down.
And for that, then you use a shielded cable like an outside that you use in the garden.
Shielded power cable.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then you're on one side, so that any stray Eddie Burns go back to the media cost.
So, it's...
Yeah, it wasn't that much more expensive.
I mean, it's 30 euros more expensive, both.
Yeah, if you're doing this, I consider it like it's an infrastructure thing, so you'll probably...
I've never saw that in the shops, you know, where you buy this, do it yourself things,
that they had some cable with shieldings there.
No, I bought it on day from an electrical supplier online.
Okay, so it's just something...
Did it come fast or did it have some delivery time?
Yeah, of course.
Yeah, of course, I ordered one.
Christmas Eve, like...
Planning ahead as I do.
So, no, it came in.
The guy who was nice, actually, he had a little trolley and brought it on to the back of the garden when I was able to,
or next to the shed, so I was able to, you know, take everything out.
So I've got all the components now, so...
And now I know I haven't worked through what I want to do.
What is that, man?
I haven't worked through what I want to do.
I can get better quotes from people.
Because it is attached to this kit.
There's no like variable.
Yeah, well, we don't know what we're digging the garden.
We'll put in manhours, because, you know, it might come across your burry gun or something,
and you're going to work around it.
So, it's basically rewire.
Here is how I want you to rewire.
And you're doing this because I want the certification that it's done properly.
Yeah.
Okay.
But, yeah, as it says, it's quite expensive this stuff.
And if you have an old house, it is also the question,
whether you get old...
Well, you say some part was redone in the 80s, but it is...
No, I mean, whether you give it out of the wall.
When we bought this house,
it had been re-done in the 80s,
and we bought it in 2000 and something.
And like, the upstairs, we opened the window and the whole back wall was made out of wood.
Wooden roof extension.
And it just fell down,
and I had to pull the whole thing back and duct tape it.
So, yeah.
So, when we moved in, we completely got at the house, also the floors.
The only thing that was left was the front wall and the side wall,
and a little piece of the rafters at the roof.
Wow.
And we replaced...
We lowered the wall, because it was really high ceilings from the 1800s.
Well, by lowering it, we had more space on the first floor,
and then in the attic,
it was a crawling space, it was a walkie space.
So, that was nice.
And then all the electric...
Everything was dumped, all the water was replaced, water was replaced,
gas, everything was replaced.
So, it's brand new, everything is brand new here.
It's just now the meter cabinet,
when we did the extension, I asked.
And I did...
This was where I'm standing now as a seller,
and it was actually a cold bunker,
where the whiteboard or where the cabinets are,
was a window and the truck would come in and dump the coal,
and the floor down in here.
And so, it was actually just to the top of my head.
I could stand in between the rafters.
I was super annoying.
So, when we re-did this, we lowered it all down a bit,
and I put in on the floor heating,
which I don't use, but at least it's still there.
And we put in a pump, some pump stuff out.
So, it's now a nice place to be.
Probably would like to have some more nicer lighting,
but I have LED, a boxable LED somewhere,
which I cannot find.
I don't know where it could be,
but I know I have a boxable.
I mean, I thought before I have a similar problem,
like some stuff that I bought,
sometimes I look on all the express,
didn't I buy that at some time?
So, yes, I did.
Okay, so it must be somewhere.
And that's why I got these cabinets,
and I keep recorded everything.
And when I was sorting everything out,
I turned out, I could never find whatever it was I was looking for,
and then I had three different orders of the same thing.
So, bye.
And you have some ceiling lights.
I see in the back of you.
Yeah.
And I've got some lighting over here,
but it's always a little bit dark.
It's an interesting place to light.
I think I'd like some adjustable LEDs,
come on, you know, make cool,
and flashing, and all sorts of stuff.
So, some W28, or what they are called.
Yeah.
Something like that, yeah.
They can totally control if you liked it.
Was it Archer, who had the car accident?
Yep.
Yep.
I was listening to it,
but as I'm not a native speaker,
I wasn't so sure, Archer, are you there?
Or are you just your devices that are hanging in the chat?
I think so.
I think he was on earlier,
and I was going to do some chores.
Speaking of which, I've just arrived,
so I better go and say hi.
Yeah.
Oh, good idea.
And I grab a coffee.
Lovely stuff.
See you later.
Bye.
Bye.
Was that Reto asking something about me?
I think it was Reto asking if I was in a car accident,
and yes, I was, and I'm a should be going back
on the 19th of January to go back to work.
I'm quite a bit more mobile than before,
and I'm sometimes walking with cane,
sometimes just kind of limping about,
but it's getting a lot better.
Hey, Archer, are you there?
According to my quick test, my audio works,
but I cannot hear you,
because just see that you were speaking.
That should be better, right?
Now, why can't I hear you?
I switched on me from the headset to the internal microphone.
I don't know why.
I was thinking about before to attach the camera,
and then I came to my mind that the camera
would carry another microphone with it,
and then I thought,
I'd rather leave it.
I think it also turned it off in Pulse Audio.
Yeah, but it would be, again,
a run through to all the settings,
and to get everything right, I guess.
I'm just keeping PAVU control up,
so just in case something happens,
make it easy to quit the changes settings.
Good idea.
I was just, I have KDE Plasma.
I was just looking there at the settings.
So far, it works so good.
I don't have to go to dig any deeper at the moment.
Archer, I was wondering if I could ask you
a little bit about your last podcast about your accident.
Sure, go for it.
Well, as I'm not a native speaker,
I could not, how to say, catch every detail of it,
because it is rare that you speak
with someone about an accident,
so I'm not so familiar with all the words.
So it was my understanding that the car
from the opposite direction hit you?
Did I get that correctly?
Yeah, you were right.
There was a car that was turning left,
and the car that was coming behind him
didn't want to stop for the car turning left.
So he, instead of taking the ditch,
in America, would be right.
I don't know which side of the road is on in your country.
Yeah, it was the same side here.
Yeah, so he didn't want to take the ditch,
so he took my side and hit me at 55,
or who knows how fast he was going,
because he didn't want to stop.
Ah, not my understanding.
Do you have my head set?
Because I can hear my echo.
I have a headset on.
I just have my hand on the push to talk button.
Then I don't know, maybe it was just,
I don't know how loud it is.
Sometimes it comes back over the boom of the microphone.
Okay, and so you work quite a while in the hospital.
And the next part, I'm not so sure I understood this.
I understood that you had to go to,
to get your body back in,
to work again, basically.
But did you lose any part of your body,
or was it just the fixing that made you struggle
to get back on your legs?
It was just the fixing.
It was about an 18-inch steel rod
that they stuck from the top of my hip down
through only a couple handful of incisions.
Actually, they did pretty good.
I didn't have a lot of incisions at all.
Okay, Lucky, I wasn't sure how hard it hit you.
And you were, how to say,
you didn't lose your conscious during the accident.
Because I think the recording you played,
I don't know how you made that.
If this was, how to say,
this cameras, this dash cam,
or if you intentionally turned on your mobile on recording,
how did that go along?
I intentionally turned it on
about two minutes after the accident.
I somehow got my wits about me
and thinking I better record this.
I haven't, well, I didn't put on the podcast,
but I got captured when I was being pulled out.
And it was, I was in pretty much a lot of pain.
Yeah, I can imagine if somebody's coming,
I mean, at that speed, coming next to you,
coming against you,
what about the driver of the other car?
Did it get hit as, as, as, as, as you got hit?
Or did, did the, the misbehaving driver
have a luckiest ride?
I know he was flown to a different hospital.
I don't know if you're familiar with the,
it probably not.
It's a, it's both there on our drive.
One is a place called Cincinnati
and it's the next state north.
And the other was the town called Lexington
and that's just an hour south of where I'm located.
And the state is Kentucky.
Okay. Yeah. Well, I'm aware of the,
how to say, basically, I'm aware,
but I'm in Europe.
So, yeah.
So you were even in a helicopter then
to go to the hospital.
Right, but it cut off before I got to the helicopter.
So again, to get to capture that, but.
Oh, you mean the audio recording?
Right. Yeah, the audio recording.
Okay. Wait, wait, wait,
where did you, where did you keep the mobile to record it?
I mean, that it was quite well.
Did you just have it in your, in your pants?
Or, or did you hold it in your hand?
It was in my dashboard.
A little slot underneath the radio all the time.
Inside the car, was it?
Yeah, it's the name I can post.
I probably should post in here.
Accent audio recorder. It's a pretty good recorder.
It's on F-Troid.
I have one which,
with which I'm not so happy.
So, if you can put the link in the,
what is this thing called?
Oh, and the show notes or in the chat,
which are better in the show notes,
because otherwise, so we help the autos who collect it.
Hold the link.
See if it is not too much.
No, give me a second.
I'll have to take my hand off,
push the talk for about a minute.
I just need to find the show notes for a second.
Here we go.
Maybe this is a third link on top.
Yeah, I put, I pinned it actually.
So, let me see if I can do that.
Oh, I don't have...
Number four I meant.
Right, I got the link in the show notes now.
I just, I need to change my time on my bar.
I'm on I3.
I need to change it to where it shows.
I don't know if you call it standard time,
or like military time.
Because right here...
I guess it's the UTC.
Yeah, I'm not UTC.
I'm Eastern time.
Yeah, I guess I should...
There's a place called timeandate.com.
I'll keep that open.
That's...
How do you think it is necessary to put in the timestamp?
Oh, it might be.
I think this is because of the copy of the chat.
I know, but it might be useful.
Oh, see what I can find.
I go and grab my mobile.
I'm wondering what player I have.
Right now, if you go...
Have you ever heard of timeandate online?
It tells you international dates or any date that you...
I'm setting a location right now to be...
I don't know how to set UTC.
Is it a wonderful time?
Do you know how to set UTC on that though?
I think it's a universal time,
or green, which mean time or something.
I'm familiar with GMT or UTC.
Oh, it should be the same as the UK, right?
GMT is zero as...
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, I have the audio recorder from falsify.org,
which I also got over afterroid.
But I was not so happy with it.
I have some zone S23.
And I heavily deep-loaded it.
And so I had to get some apps back.
And replace some of the standard one.
And the one from falsify I have if I turn off the display with the button.
It sometimes stops recording.
And this is especially ugly if you're in a situation where you cannot recheck your phone,
because you're concentrated of something else.
So I'm going to try your audio recorder here as well,
to see if it works better.
There is one thing about that audio recorder after about two hours,
two to three hours.
It sticks on...
Maybe it's just my phone.
But it sticks in it.
You have to end up going through the Android debug bridge
to get it to pull off that audio.
Debug bridge is not enough to hold the button
and go into the settings and close the application.
I know, it's because I don't want to...
If I have three hours of recording,
and I don't want to stop the application,
because once I do stop it,
it still sticks again.
It's probably my phone.
Okay, interesting side effects,
but how to say that I would rarely record over,
I would say,
20 to 30 minutes.
Right, normally I don't,
but when I go to see a family event,
or I want to record to stick,
because there's a lot of good conversation that happens.
For recording of HPR or such,
I once there was a guy
who made a podcast about it,
how to record for HPR.
And I think he suggested something that is not free.
I think from Dolby,
I will check it.
Oh yeah, I've seen it,
but I don't remember the name.
Okay, let's talk somewhere in my Google Play Store.
Yeah, I'm still trying to figure out.
It shows GMT on this time and date,
but it's not showing a military time,
or I guess standard,
because it says 203,
and it's not,
it's 1403 there, right?
If you show standard time.
So in Switzerland,
it is 1503,
so it must be 14, yes.
Right, but when it, I don't know if it's my location,
but I just put in London,
and it says 203 PM,
it doesn't show without the PM.
It's the full format for UK.
Good morning, a good T-Zag, gentlemen.
Morning Claudia.
How was your year?
My year has been a world wind.
But I'm right now about to start on some coffee here,
and then just get on with the rest of the day.
We got a lot to do here.
A lot of home projects and stuff.
You'll do here, Claudia.
You got a little somewhere there?
You guys hear me all right?
I can hear you.
Hello, nice to hear you again.
Yeah, my connection here might be a little wonky,
so I might appear disappear.
You might cut out,
so I guess it is what it is.
The new Play Store,
they built in more and more functions,
and to find the one that you have not installed,
you have to hit on your device,
and then you have to pull down,
and then it says, show me the ones you don't have in store.
Love it.
Okay, so the app is called Dolby on,
like on off, so Dolby on,
and then call on record, audio, and music,
from the Dolby Laboratory's incorporation.
I actually have seen that one.
I'll be listening,
but I have to drop off for a minute to see what my auntie is up to.
We are at Loads with Us,
and we're,
I have to make sure she gets all she needs for medicine,
and breakfast.
Sure. Talk to you later.
Catch you later, Archer.
So what are your plans for,
bring in the new year,
aside from this?
My son is watching
a Lord of the Rings extended version marathon
with some friends,
and I'm going to be trying to post tomorrow's show
for HPR before tomorrow,
and that involves fixing your luck and broken scripts.
And I won't bore you with it.
You can hear my rant in July, like everybody else.
Yeah, I was going to say that should be a show.
Yeah, it should be.
Yeah, I'm getting there now.
Thank you.
Yeah, tempting Murphy to come along.
No, that.
Yeah, I hear you. I know.
I've got a few I need to put in as well.
It's just been super busy these past two weeks.
Actually, this month,
mainly with travels,
and then just taking care of things here,
barely have time to sit down
and even record an episode
or anything.
Yeah, I know the feeling.
Yeah, we're just going to have a couple of people over.
I'm going to try and get in touch with my eldest son,
a little later, see if he wants to come over
because his grandparents,
whom he lives with,
they're on a trip,
and so it's just him.
And I'm like, well, you know,
I don't want him celebrating on his own.
I'm going to ask him to see if he wants to come over.
We're going to do, as usual, a barbecue.
So tomorrow is going to be another barbecue.
We've got more people coming over.
And that it's been a barbecue filled
past two weeks.
We've been off these two weeks.
My fiance and I.
So, yeah,
yep, yep,
yep.
That goes to your anniversary.
Yeah, proposed on a two-year anniversary.
As for her hand in marriage in German.
Yeah.
Cool.
Well, congratulations.
Thank you, sir.
One of the things I didn't get to do was
one of the things I did get to do.
Actually, I had a little bit of time to do was
finish setting up my music
workstation area here at home
and started working.
I had a, since I had stalled slack
where instead of Fedora this time around,
it was a little,
a little, a little tougher to get
everything going, but I got it going.
And I was able to test some things out.
I still need to get a couple of
AC adapters for one other synth
that I have along with
a drum machine and a
tabletop sequencer.
And hopefully I can start doing some stuff.
So, I'm just thinking around with different software.
I've been using Q tractor.
But I wanted to see about using
hardware.
Something a little more robust.
But at least I got jack working
under slack work.
So that's, that's, that's an achievement for me.
Are you the guy who did the SSH
or open SSH escape sequences?
And Claudio?
Yes, that was me.
That was me.
Brilliant.
Thanks so much.
Let me take credit for figuring those out.
Those who I found that.
So yeah, I'm glad you all enjoyed it.
Yeah, to spread the word was really great.
Yeah, I made it to refer to that.
Now you mentioned it because I completely forgot about that episode
too. You mentioned it.
So I made it to refer to that for those sequences.
So I can remind myself what they are again.
I just put the link into the show notes.
Very good.
Hello. This is Trey.
Trey, welcome.
I'm finally figuring out this mumble thing.
Which part of it?
All of it.
Did the first install just a couple of minutes ago
on the newest.
Did you go for the snap?
I tried with apt functions first
and feel like failure in Scotia.
I took the snap.
I'm quite happy with it.
And well, because of it.
And not only
Poppy once packaged a good
screenshot editor for it
until I got that piece running
shutter.
Was it called, I think.
But in the meantime, on KDE
and they have another tool on board
that it's as good as I no longer need that one.
But just lately I found out
with snap that you can
extend the period until it updates the app.
And because telegram,
I also used the snap version.
And so I
said that it would only update
every 14 days or such.
I can put some code in it.
The thing that bugs me about snap though
is that I get
kidney updates on things that I installed
by snap like discord.
I installed discord snap time ago.
And I'll get a snap update that says
your discord needs to be updated.
And I'll go to update it.
No, we can't update it.
Because snap D is running.
But if I stop snap D then snap D
can't run. And it's just a royal pain
in the posterior.
If you just did an update
at least on the telegram app,
I have to click to start it
about three times until it then
finally come up.
And they released quite often an update.
So I was really glad to have
a possibility to extend that refresh time.
But can you in snap D itself
or I mean close the app
and then ask snap
to do the updates by itself?
Perhaps I'll have to look into that.
Yeah, right now I'm using
Mumbla, which is the
Mumbla Android client.
It was a bit
it took a bit to setup.
But once you set it,
it's pretty much set and forget it.
At least on Mumbla.
It should be the same thing
once you get it going on
on Linux or BSD or whatever.
It's just having to
since it's been so long since I've used it,
it's been so long since I've used it.
That's valid.
Yeah, once I got it installed
it was all right.
I had to figure out which
Pulse Audio devices I was actually
the Android things tend to go
with the default audio devices on your
it's running now.
I'm excited.
That's awesome.
So if you're in front of a terminal
or if you just open a terminal,
I give you a command which is
and then you see when the last
refresh of snap was.
So you type the word snap
and then the word refresh
minus minus time.
Then you'll tell you
how it is update when the last one was
and when the next is coming.
You said you left that as a comment.
Now I've got to figure out how comments
was this a learning?
No, this was just talking.
But if you go on the HPR website
and you take the fort link
and then it says
something like show notes,
lockcastywire.org
where the easerpad
is and there at the bottom
you see the snap comments.
I would just add the other one
with the refresh time.
All right, so you've got
snap-update-dashtime.
You know, all this talk about using
mumble or mumble rather.
I should check and see
if there's actually a mumble client
or high-coup.
It sounds like an episode for HPR
if I do say so myself.
I wonder how many people get themselves
into new episodes
just by bringing up topics
on this episode beginning of every year.
Well, I wonder how many people
feel that they've already covered the topic
because they've had it on here.
I'm not sure. Yeah, but can you
just make it well known that
it doesn't count when it's
on the New Year's Eve record?
Ken, have you heard of the
the ham clock
by Ivanado
or running on Ivan? No.
Well, now it sounds like I have a new dude.
Yeah, it doesn't exist.
Christmas presents I got this year.
Sadly, the creator
is a little device, this play of a lot of different things of interest
to ham radio, but
he's encountering challenges
with cancer right now and in the middle of November
they said these are the last ones we're producing
for a while until I get better.
I'm going to buy it now.
Yeah, a bunch of us bought a bunch to help
fund him stuff.
I'm based in Lincoln
and today,
you to pat or into the chat.
No, uh,
again, somebody says chat.
Tell me where to go.
So on the mobile client
it says type message here
to channel HBR
or you can go to hackablebitradio.org
front page and then scroll down
scroll down to where it says
and a lower left. Got it.
Okay, I'm going to go and drop a coffee.
Get easy, Ken.
Yeah, I'm working on breakfast here.
So I'll pop in a little later.
Nice to see you again.
Bye, guys.
And if you are ever in Germany again,
you have to drop over for a couple
of meat at the border.
We'll do how make sure to put that in the plants.
But draw it here.
Happy New Year's.
Hi, Minics. Happy New Year.
I got to go to work. I just want to say hi to everybody.
Is anybody on the Jitzi server?
Before there was Ken.
I don't know what about now.
Okay. I just want to make sure it's working okay.
Before it was.
All right. Good.
Thank you.
Thank you. Happy New Year, Minics.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Hey, more to see. Do you know if the Jitzi server is working okay?
I signed into it earlier.
Our dough was in there.
I didn't turn on my webcam
because it broke on my phone.
But I'm going to turn on the tablet
in a little bit.
But yeah, it appeared to be working.
Okay, cool.
I'm going to go to work. I'll talk to you guys later.
All right. Goodbye.
Greetings and salutations.
Hello. Welcome.
Hi, Chiu.
Yeah, I'm keeping myself primarily needed
because I got Bloomberg playing kind of low.
So anything new happening today?
Yeah.
Lovecraft.
I don't believe we've met.
But I do need to thank you for the
show notes.
Fantastic.
Oh, no problem. You're very welcome.
How's it going?
It is indeed going fine.
Good to hear.
Good to hear.
Good to hear.
I lovecraft.
Hey, how's it going, Joe?
How are you doing?
I really didn't want anything.
So I guess you did bring me what I wanted.
Oh, there you go.
How about you? How was your Christmas?
It wasn't too bad.
One vacation this week.
So that's even better.
But yeah, I got a couple of things,
a couple of books and stuff.
So yeah, not too bad.
We're all got to see a bunch of people.
I got a book on
folklore of the New Jersey Pine Barons.
I got another book
on this local author.
He's written a series of books.
Kind of like a
fictionalizing some of the
lore of the Pine Barons in New Jersey here.
So I got the first four of his books.
It's a, the series is called The Piney's.
And I think that was,
that was it for books.
Got a couple of,
you know, a couple of the,
you know, regular stuff.
You get socks and things like that.
And, uh,
got a big, big box of, uh,
chocolate-covered, uh,
coffee beans,
which are going down pretty good.
I got those two.
Did you? Oh, man. Yeah.
I tried to get myself to,
just a small handful of day.
Yeah, trying to limit myself
to a serving is difficult.
I got two bags. One multi-flavored
and one dark chocolate.
Oh, yeah, these are, uh, these are just dark chocolate.
Um, yeah, I try and,
I try and stay to like 10 a day.
That's difficult.
Yeah, yeah, I know. That's how the coffee beans good.
You all need to stop talking about this stuff.
Now I need to get some.
They're delicious and nutritious.
I don't know about them.
Time you won't sleep.
I'm drinking tons of coffee right now anyways.
I've been up since about three.
Yes, we should always have chocolate-covered coffee beans
with your cup of coffee or pot of coffee.
I find they go best with either, um,
what is it? Deaf fish or black rifle?
Nice. I'm drinking Gordon Street coffee
and the bag I bought in Glasgow
when I was there, which was about two months ago.
I'm myself and having
Dalmeyer photo mole to this German coffee.
Awesome.
I think that I had a lot of whole beans of that brand.
Uh, I bought it in, uh,
Munster when, uh, my fiance and I were visiting over there,
a couple of weeks back.
I finished that all up and, uh,
now I'm on some, uh,
pre-ground ones that they sell at home goods.
Uh, it's good enough for now.
Whatever works. You can always get stuff shipped.
I'd do that quite a bit.
Yes, true.
Definitely try the death wish then.
Better and owned and operated.
Those guys know how to make coffees.
Yeah, no, that's good coffee.
I have plenty of coffee in my freezer.
My entire door of my freezer is just coffee.
I did put up some of their seasonal this year,
I don't know.
I think they did pumpkin spice this year or something
and I don't know last year was their gingerbreads
and that was awesome.
I live in the city of Maxwell House.
Literally the Maxwell House is in the city I'm in right now.
That's cool.
That's kind of cool if you want to go uptown
and all you smell is coffee through half the city.
Sure.
There are always things to smell.
That is true. That is true.
When I was in high school,
we had, uh, a fish plant up the road.
Yeah, I don't think I'd like that one.
So lovecraft, what have you been working on?
Not a whole lot.
It's been finishing the year end work projects up
with everyone trying to get their stuff in
before the end of the year.
Nothing too exciting.
How about you?
I saw you were printing a shelf for that rack you got.
Yeah.
It kind of died partway through,
but well, last 10%.
But, uh, it looks like it'll still work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That point's taking a shelf.
I think it's just too tall for how wide the,
or how narrow the base is.
Oh, okay.
Gotcha.
And because.
Oh, I pretty printed my own.
Oh, that's interactive.
Yeah. That's why I need the, uh,
a larger mirror.
That's cool. Yeah.
Be interested in seeing what the finished product looks like.
That sounds pretty cool.
Yeah. Um, I think next I'm going to print out that shelf
that's for my, uh,
net gear eight port, um,
switch.
That's cool.
How many things you plan on mounting in it?
Well, it's eight you.
So, um,
and I can only print out, uh,
one of you items.
That sounds interesting.
Yeah. Well, good luck.
Good luck with that.
Thank you.
And I still got a, um,
porting your stuff that I'm playing around with.
Yeah. I'm planning on, uh,
firing up that printer that, uh,
that guy at work gave me a couple of months ago and
playing with that the rest of this week a little bit.
Oh, what do you get to?
Uh, he gave me, it's an ender five pro.
He just, I,
he just brought into work one day.
Ender five.
Yeah, right.
He bought, uh, he bought two anchor,
or something like anchor mate,
or something like that printers.
And he's like, yeah, I don't, I don't have space for this one anymore.
Just take it off my hand.
So I'm like, oh, oh, thank you.
Okay. I can do that.
Is that a corex?
I have no idea.
My, my, uh, 3D printer knowledge is,
is certainly lacking.
Oh,
but the one cast and then we'll take a look at it.
Yeah. Uh, yeah.
I got to, I got to dig it up.
It's my garage right now, but yeah.
Okay.
Are you just going to use the,
the built-in software?
You've been on set enough octoprain?
Uh, I'll probably keep it simple that just to start with.
And, uh, as I develop some projects and stuff like that,
I'll, I'll see about expanding out.
Um, yeah, it was,
it was totally unexpected.
And I was like, yeah, all right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I really didn't have any particular use,
but now that I've got it and I've got some time,
uh, I definitely want to start, uh,
playing around with it a little bit more.
He, he was, he was using it to print out, um,
uh, like terrain for, uh,
Warhammer or not Warhammer, uh,
hero, hero quest.
And he was printing out a lot of stuff like that.
And it was taking, it was taking a while.
So he's like, yeah, I need,
I need to print it out faster.
That we're faster than this.
And now he's like churning it out,
all kinds of, uh, terrain pieces and stuff like that.
And for his different games and stuff that he's doing.
What, so it's practically a new ender file?
Yeah, I think he's only had it for like three months or so.
When he, uh,
when he decided he needed to upgrade.
That's a heck of a gift.
Yeah, I mean, you know,
we've known each other for like 20 years.
So, you know, and I, I'm the only other person in our department
that really cares about technology outside of work.
So, what do you put up printing first?
I have no idea.
I'll probably just find out.
Oh, I mean, you're going to start with Benchee.
Oh, yeah, yeah, Benchee.
They had the little, uh, test print one.
Probably.
Yeah, give me a couple of things of, uh,
filament too.
So, I'm, uh, I'll set to go.
Yeah.
PLA or pet g?
Uh, I have no idea.
I have to, I have to look.
I'm not sure if it's a pet g or the most common.
So, but we've got to figure out what material it is before we can figure out what temperature to set it at.
Yeah, that, that was part of what I've heard him belly aching about
getting things dialed in and stuff like that.
So, he did, uh, he said there is a
note that he's got some settings written down on.
They said suggest trying with those.
So, I'm like, okay, that's cool.
Maybe we'll be able to convince Danny to, you know,
actually print something on his.
Yeah, it's been a while since he, uh,
heard him talk about using it.
Yeah, he started talking about, you know,
um, getting those upgrades finally on there that he purchased all of and then
he hasn't mentioned it again.
Well, you know, he's just got to get his priority straight.
Yeah, I'll give him a hard time about it, just writing.
He should be out here sometime today.
I think he just posted, uh, a, uh, voice recording to the matrix chat.
Oh, I know he was asking about Jitzi,
but I didn't see that.
The message said, um, about setting up the room, the Jitzi room,
to start with everyone, mute it.
Yeah, he was asking about the audio settings.
I let him know.
Cool.
I already, uh, got my blood work done at the DA
and now I am at the allergy clinic.
Getting mic shot.
Well, it sounds like a good way to spend the morning.
Yeah.
You don't go to the DMV FS.
Yeah.
Uh, specifically so that I could be on here with you guys,
but I ended up having a bunch of other stuff that needed to get done.
And then, um, I worked tomorrow.
And then I also, uh, work on Saturday.
Saturday? Oh, man.
Yeah.
Is that a, uh, routine thing that you work Saturday?
Or is that just a holiday?
No, um, we have one person that normally works for weekends.
But he's on vacation.
And so I'm covering one of the two days.
Okay, that's not too bad then.
Yeah, it happens every now and again.
And the guy deserves a vacation too.
So I'm not going to claim.
Yeah, now everybody deserves some time off.
They work for it.
I believe in the vacation.
It should be done for everybody for a few weeks.
I know I have to take a week before the end of March.
I'll figure out what that is.
Yeah, I think, uh, everybody in my department,
you know, it's come down the end of the year.
Where it's, you know, use it or lose it.
So we just, December was a, we were on a skeleton crew.
Yeah, I think everybody was.
And then I got to figure out if it's in the budget or not for me to make it to Iowa for a week.
Or at least a couple days.
Uh, yeah, you said that was, uh, what your stepdad up there?
Foster.
Foster to foster father, yeah.
Foster father, mother and sister.
Driving up there or flying?
I'll probably drive just so I don't have to rent a car when I get there.
Because it's in the middle of nowhere.
So I'd have to go pretty far anyway.
Oh, okay.
Got you.
I mean, at that point, my choices are flying to Omaha or flying to Minneapolis.
And that's a long way to take a rental.
Oh, wow.
Okay. Those are the two of those closest locations.
Wow.
Yeah. Well, they're both closer than Des Moines.
I mean, not a whole lot of other airports in that area.
Yeah, I guess I've always never been to Iowa, but I've always heard how, how empty.
You know, not a lot of stuff around there.
Yeah, it's pretty flat.
Takes a while to go.
Hey, you have to wave.
Or Nancy. Or Nancy.
People in the camera and you have to wave.
I'm or Nancy.
If you have people in the video, you have to wave.
Hi.
Hello. How are you?
Happy New Year.
Good. Enjoying it.
It's the first time I got to talk to Morty.
It's the first time I got to talk to him.
I've never met him before.
Seen him going past on the wires a lot.
Just posting on Mastodon.
My morning post.
And put in there the New Year's Eve, the New Year's show.
So hopefully other people will join in.
It's quite a few around that.
Well, the more the barrier.
And or not.
It's going to top off for a while.
I want to work out something with Dave.
Well, how dare you drop? Go ahead.
Yeah. I'm avoiding you.
Soon as I saw you coming into the show.
I know. I know. I'm avoiding you.
There goes a new road.
Like the plague.
The plague.
Even a dog camp.
You were trying to run away from me.
A void. A void.
Run away.
How are you doing?
I'm doing fine. I'm just hanging here.
I'm just playing the last day of the market today.
Hello. Anyone here?
Here. Hello, Ken.
So we're going to do the traditional how my children wish while child.
You're going off to here.
Hi.
Hi.
Hello.
Happy New Year.
Hello from Thailand.
I need to go now.
Okay, you better go. Bye.
Hello and new year hackers.
Hello and happy New Year's to you too.
New Year's to all.
Oh, the
Awesome room. It went down for a little bit.
Hit up. But it's back up now.
My partner.
But this one is going to be my.
So, sorry, well, there seems to have been a little funny mistake where people started talking
in the root challenge, I know.
So yeah.
That's fine Fred, get me more to see we're just chatting out there for a minute.
So, what is this?
It's almost new years for you?
No.
Uh, yes, yes.
There's a train.
Oh wow.
Train?
Yeah, the yellow line.
The BTS.
Oh.
Yeah, it's new years now.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Every man.
Everywhere around us.
Oh, you can see a big display in the background there.
Yeah.
Nice.
Oh, you're cold.
Cool.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You weren't kidding with all around.
Oh, yeah.
And we're like not in the middle of everything.
Bank clock.
We're out to the side.
I heard there was a ban on fireworks this year.
Oh, really, people there didn't get the memo.
Okay, if it's anything like the traffic rules, it's just a mild suggestion.
Very nice.
The dogs are Barton.
I'll refrain from the song reference.
So anybody already in 2025?
It's 2025 in Thailand.
Well, happy new year over there in Thailand.
Thank you, video.
Have we met in town?
We may have met a long time ago.
At a self.
I was at self 2010 and 2011.
Yes.
Yeah, that was cool.
You playing on going again?
Man, it's been forever since I've been.
I wanted to go to so many conferences, including self.
But it's just, it just happens at a very bad time of the year for me.
My fiance and I have been doing some more traveling.
So it would be nice to actually head over to Europe for an odd camp.
I have never been.
Neither of us is, which is why I like to go.
I also like to attend one of the BSD conferences.
Europe BSD count over there.
And also BSD cans.
And so a little closer than Europe.
Self easy for me to get to in my current work.
Actually, let's me have the time off and take it as training.
You know, I should give that a try now considering how things have changed
and my job, specifically, they're very pro training.
So if I can convince them of that, many people,
let me take the time off.
Because when self happens, it's usually during our blackout periods.
So inside work for the school system.
And usually around that time is when we start getting things ready
as they close the school year.
Yeah, first weekend in June.
Exactly.
So, yeah, it's a little tough.
But maybe I can convince them, let me take the days.
Usually, if we take vacation days, which I've got like a million accumulator
already, if we take the vacation days, it has to be approved.
So if I can approve it that way, great.
Otherwise, yeah, it's got to be personal, personal days.
But we'll see.
How about Ohio Linux?
That one's a little far from me because I'm in South Florida.
So I can do self.
And I think there's even the Texas Linux Fest that I could probably do.
But yeah, Ohio is a bit up there.
I've been to Ohio already.
Well, Cincinnati.
But yeah, I went there with my son and in the middle of winter.
So that was fun.
It was to visit his girlfriend and her parents and whatnot.
But I had to see about that one.
And that one's even worse because that's at the beginning of the school year,
at least usually.
I know this past year was a little later in the year.
I was almost going to go there to my first cell at Ohio Linux Fest.
But after the accident, then it was only two weeks before it was going to be.
I actually blew up my motorcycle.
Good, good.
Oh, I was looking for parking in 2005 and totaled my motorcycle and missed that year.
Oh, I didn't sustain the injuries archered at the.
Speaking of that, archer, how you doing?
Well, I'm up on a cane now and sometimes walking without the assistance of it.
No better, but non-bionic, I guess.
Meaning I have a.
We can rebuild him.
Yeah, I have a metal 18.
I don't know, 15 inch rod in me.
My fiance's nephew had a really bad accident earlier this year in May.
Much better.
And yeah, he had to get his elbow replaced and the top part of his arm on his right arm.
He also had to get some rods put on his foot.
It's a miracle.
Seriously, it's a miracle that both of you are still here.
That I believe.
I felt like I was being rebuilt like the $6 million man, even though I was still under anesthetic.
Yeah, we were saying the same thing to him.
You're basically Robocop now.
At least I'm not the T1000.
Yeah, that would be problematic.
All right, I just jumped in for a bit.
I got to go into lows right now and get some some wood.
So I will catch you guys later.
Later.
Later.
I'll hop back in a little bit also.
I'm sure it's good to know you're up and about some now.
You're not that far north of me.
Am I?
How far?
I'm down in East Tennessee.
So probably about a three to four hour drive.
Yeah, and the Ohio Linux Fest was only a three hour drive for me if I would have gotten there.
I love that part of the country, Lexington, Cincinnati, Coveington, Kentucky, all that.
A couple parts of the.
Now I got to get up to Louisville.
I'm craving a hot brown.
I never had that.
Well, next time you're in Louisville, you need to give it a try.
It's basically a there take on a roast.
When I get up to Chicago, I can't remember where it is.
I like to go, but they have roast good roast beef up there.
Or Italian beef, sorry.
Oh, yeah.
The Italian beef.
It's funny how every place has their own take on a beef when I was growing up in western New York.
The one there was the roast beef on Weck, Kimoweck, Caroleys, and Salt on.
You said you're in Tennessee, and we're close to Gatlinburg?
Very close to Gatlinburg, maybe.
Without traffic, it would be half an hour, 40 minute drive.
With the type of traffic we see this time of year, it's probably an hour and 20 minutes.
I want to go down there for one of our anniversaries.
We've been married 12 years.
Why can't I?
Congratulations.
It's a beautiful place to visit.
Well, maybe we can get there not this year, but maybe the next.
All right, I need to step away for a minute.
Take it easy.
Ken was talking earlier about his son having a load of the rings marathon.
It reminds me I need to look up and see if I can find my soundtrack
for all three movies.
I have no idea where it's in the move.
I have no idea where they got off to.
Hello.
May I ask where everybody is calling from?
Sweden.
New Orleans.
Well, I'm in the Boston areas.
Thank you, gentlemen.
I'm in Jacksonville, Florida.
I'm one of two contributors hailing from Kentucky.
I believe I know you.
I'm in the techie tech and coffee group with SoulSpider.
Did you ever get your stickers?
No, I did not get my stickers.
I may have to resend those out to you.
I think I don't know.
Pete had him to be like, oh, these are mine now.
No, I just haven't been.
I didn't want to ask my in-laws to stop there.
It was across town.
So.
Yeah, sorry about that.
I just got like that one day.
I was like, well, I don't know.
Maybe.
We'll eventually get together and.
I'll just send them to Pete.
Well, we'll have a chat one day at the restaurant or something.
You'll see a bunch extra.
My dad was from West Virginia and I miss going back down
into that country.
I don't think Neymar knows my story.
Neymar, do you know what happened to me over the past couple of months?
I don't believe I do.
Please.
I'm mostly ears.
Well, it was November the second, a little bit after lunch.
I was only two miles from home.
Believe it or not.
And it was somebody was turning left, stopped,
and they were going northbound.
And I was coming southbound and passed that said car.
And somebody else coming at a high rate of speed towards that stop car.
Instead of taking the ditch, they took my lane.
I know I was going 55 and they were going maybe even faster than that.
And I broke my femur on my left leg and they had to rebuild me with a
steel rod or titanium rod actually down the length of my femur.
Damn.
Did it have mass plates on?
No, it had Ohio plates on it.
And he was flown to Cincinnati.
So apparently he must have got a pretty amount of damage too.
And the car that was just mining in his own business was in pretty good shape.
I think they only had minor injuries.
It came back to the hospital the next day.
Well up here, I call Hunter Orange Pedestrian Orange for a reason.
And lighten me.
I don't drive, but some of these people don't understand the concept of a crosswalk.
Is that the drivers or the pedestrians?
Well, since I'm strictly on the pedestrian.
But what am I getting the tree back room?
I shouldn't be getting it.
But since I'm on the pedestrian side strictly, it's the drivers.
Although my brother is a long haul trucker and he believes a lot of four wheelers
got their licenses out of Cracker Jack boxes.
He's all over the country including California and other interesting places.
And his opinion of some drivers would melt concrete.
That was quite vocal about that.
Well, this is a guy who was hit by a drunk driver in a parking area.
Trucker parking area.
So he had some reason.
Now, the driver did not damage his truck because it hit him from the back.
And that big ICC bumper did a number on his Buick.
General or Buick or no?
I don't recall how old it was.
I just recall that this car hit the back end of the trailer.
It was going at enough speed to really do a number on the car.
Also, my brother back in 78 went into the army and four days in, he landed wrong.
He really did a number on his leg.
He was a year going to permanent duty.
So I have some understanding of the kind of work that is required to put a leg back like that.
I hope you'll be feeling better soon.
Man, that's pretty rough.
I'm not bad.
I'm kind of hobbling around sometimes, but doing a lot better than I was.
I was walking around for a couple weeks in a walker.
Well, my brother also got an interesting story.
He was a year, instead of going to three months or whatever, a basic training, he had to start over.
And he was a year going to his permanent duty station.
Well, while he was hobbling around, our government never wanted to waste money on little people decided that they should get some work out of him.
So he was actually pushing wheelchairs around all over the hospital because he was part of the detachment of patients.
They figured they were paying him. They were going to get some work out of him, even if he's on the sick list.
After his service, he goes into Army Reserve, where he's taking apart Russian vehicles to see what makes them tick or how to break them or what have you.
This requires security clearance.
Well, somebody reads his records, but not reading the fine print pulls his security clearance because they see that part of his duties as a patient was in the psych ward.
My brother was not in the psych ward as a patient. He was in the psych ward as an orderly sort of type of guy who was in the orthopedics.
But somebody didn't read the fine print and he lost his security clearance for a bit until somebody, this was clarified.
And later on, my brother dropped up his legs by jumping off of a loading platform and was out of work for quite a long time.
I've only had a chipped wrist, so I knock on wood.
Well, this is the first thing I've broken in 52 years of my life, and it was a doozy.
My wife says, don't do it half butt, so to speak. Do it right the first time.
Well, at least ways you got a pretty nurse taking care of you.
But now that rather not be laying in the bed, not being able to do anything, that first step, the first two days after they told me they should be able to put pressure on it, it was not good.
I wasn't sure if I'd ever be able to walk again.
Well, sounds like you were a tough guy.
Actually, you remind me a little bit about my grandfather from West Virginia.
Do you know anything about how soft coal mining is done?
I have no idea. I'm in a coal area, but I have no idea about mining.
Well, they undercut the coal with this big S chainsaw type thing, which has carbide teeth on it.
And I don't know. I was a young kid at the time, but he got ran afoul of that beast, and he recovered from it.
But my grandpa was what you would call a guy with a bark on. He was pretty tough.
I couldn't say I'm tough. I'm a little guy. I'm only five-nine.
And I just really wanted to walk again, that's all.
Ain't the size, man. The fact that you're pushing yourself, that's proof enough.
You don't have to say nothing to nobody.
Not just my opinion, but well, it's a grip with an alcoholic father and some nasty stuff.
I got my own PTSD across the dinner table at home.
So I've seen tough in a lot of sizes. How's the weather down in Florida?
It's kind of on off rainy today. It was really nice to miss.
Well, it's about 50 around here, but they're promising January. We'll get interesting as in the weather outside is frightful.
Yeah, or at least not for that reason, but because it's snow anymore in my eye.
I have a really bad leg, so the cold disrupts the metal in my leg.
So winter is horrible for me if I'm right. You know, it's not bad down here.
It's, you know, you live in an air conditioning for summer months. Right now it's 71.
And slightly humid because it's rainy, other than it's not too bad.
So you're part of the metal club down there.
I got my left femur, as I was saying before. Well, part did they get it for you?
So this is this happened in the 80s. I just got some really large pins holding parts of my knee joined together.
And it just, I don't know. And that's been, that's been in there since the early 80s. So one of these days, I mean, I go back.
Can I visit my suit?
Ah, yes. Martency, our local foreign correspondent is, is now coming. He's not back in mumble yet. He's in, uh, Jitzi.
Yeah, I didn't really plan to join the Jitzi thing. I don't know.
Nice. Also kind of working. And when I say working, I'm just day trading, but they kind of listening to stuff on this side. The market's garbage.
Well, the person I listened to about economic matters, Peter Zeehan on YouTube says things are going to be different with everybody retiring and pulling their money into CDs and other stuff.
So also with the country on shorting a lot of stuff to get it out of China or other questionable countries.
Yeah, I actually, I retired two years ago, probably the last time I thought he was one of the New Year's Eve.
Um, I don't know. I just decided to hang up my hat at work. I've been day trading for probably about four 25 years before that.
So I've just decided to just do that and be my own boss for a while. It pays. I mean, I get money.
Yes, one of those big bank prisons that Mary Poppins was talking about.
Yeah, no, I mean, I actually did technology for, but, um, one of the side effects for working for some of these, even I worked for a three-letter technology company as well before that.
And a lot of them, uh, as employees, they would pay for your college.
So I was, uh, even when I was working for the three-letter company, I was, uh, taking financial courses through online things that they paid for.
And then when I worked for the bank, they started doing the same.
So I would take days, entire days off sometimes just to go to all day conferences about trading.
To me, it's like the way I learned technology, the way I learned to do things, it's the same thing. I just applied myself to learn finance too.
Just because, you know, why just keep my skills to one level?
Would that, uh, three-letter company be the one, is that the one from Massachusetts or is that the one with pinstripe suits?
The one with pinstripe suits from white planes New York originally.
But I worked in upstate New York for the, I mean, I'm pretty much anyone knows I worked on it.
Well, I'm not here for many.
Yeah, actually, um, it's, um, I live in the South now because of that three-letter company.
They moved me from New York to the South way back up.
I thought it was a great opportunity because I just got married and my wife and I decided that we didn't want to be near either one of our families.
So, um, the South was a, was a great place.
Yeah, yeah.
I, uh, my mother and father had inlaw troubles and I can see that.
Um, yeah.
The great thing for my, my friend was that he was, he was a railnut and he got to take regular training down in Louisiana.
Louisiana or Texas or what have you.
And he would always take the train down there.
So he got, he got free, free trips, which were virtually vacations for him.
Yeah, I got free trips because of the three letter in the, uh, the bank.
Only because they, you know, until more or less close to the pandemic when everything was virtual.
But I mean, they would fly you out places that you would never see like somebody in here was talking about the mind.
I'm like, yeah, I've seen the mind from call center and a meeting hall view and some restaurant somewhere.
I didn't see much of that.
So, you know, things like that.
So you get to travel, but you don't get to see much.
I mean, you're, you're traveling on somebody else's dime.
It's not like they're going to give you a day to get safe.
Yeah, well, I always found how my brother got around in the service kind of interesting.
He flew an F4 back seat out to Hawaii.
Evidently, there was this Air Force Colonel who was retiring and they were bringing an F4 to be toned into a target drone.
So he went out quite fast, including buzzing Russian intelligence trawler.
But being the military, he came back on a C-130 who had a very strict crew chief.
And I get the impression that my brother had a very quiet trip because he was scared the crew chief might drop him somewhere out in a specific if he got up to a buddy.
Well, they had two pilots.
The crew, it was definitely the crew chief's airplane.
Gotcha.
I didn't, I tried to do it. I couldn't do my leg.
I had to find another way out.
Put myself through college while being a machinist, did thing.
I guess most of the stuff I went to school for, I didn't even practice.
Anything to do with computers, I only took one course in computers back in the day.
Pretty much everything I've done in computers, that was learned outside of college.
I did eventually take courses.
I think I did an HDR at this.
Yeah, pretty much lied my mind.
I mean, the three digit one and kept me for a long time.
Well, I lived for many years.
I lived the buildings been taken down.
It was a wooden building that, on pilings, that at one time was over a stream.
So over the years, moisture got to it and they had to take it down.
But I was near a machine shop, old school flat belts place that was originally,
I was told built for MIT's rate to provide extra machining capacity to MIT's radar project during World War II.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, I just did a machinist as far as built fairs.
I built inter-race rings for bearings that Boeing bought, but this is way back when this is like,
in the 80s and 90s.
So in essence, I take no ownership for any crashes in the Boeing now.
Well, yeah, you know, but then I'm just saying that I have had some exposure to that stuff.
My friend and my father ran a machine shop in that building for some time.
And he had a home shop 50 plus years is a heck of a temporary situation.
I also saw the AI PDP1, I think, and it's big IBM standard tape drives.
And they were impressive.
Oh, yeah, I'm not sure if you keep breaking up there in that minor.
It seemed like you had some drops, so you know, my internet was going on earlier.
Maybe I'm not pressing push to talk exactly right.
So I just kind of leave mine on all the time.
That's why it looks like I'm always talking, but my mic actually has a mute on it.
So I just keep hitting because I was assigning buttons that were populating the chat screens.
I was like, let me find a way around.
So I actually have a mic that I push to talk about.
It continuously looks like I'm talking in here that was really annoying when I'm staring at myself.
I have Logitech headsets.
And one of the things that I found is that sometimes the Linux driver
for it's push to talk backwards or the mute backwards.
So I can only talk when when when when my headset is signaling mute and vice versa.
A bit annoying sometimes.
Yeah, gotcha.
I think this one actually mutes in the actual mic, even though it's got like a flashing light.
So flashes move or read when I mean, I tested it multiple times talking to the audio test opi.
So I ran out from my snoring or whatever it is.
Yeah, one of the things I wish mumble had was a configuration file that you could move from instance to instance
because it's been a bit of a pain having to go through audio.
The audio wizard every time I have to set up a new machine or set up a new site.
Actually, I think you can hold on.
I know I do it with a server.
Like I run a server as well from recording a pod well back in the day from the podcast.
I think you can I'd be under murmur under your profile.
I don't know.
I'm saying these things and I'm pretty sure now.
Well, I don't know a lot of.
I'm an X windows 7 refugee when Microsoft was was doing its push to get due to forcing you window windows 10.
I I jump ship to the Linux Linux world, which I've been thinking about for decades.
Yeah, I actually recorded my story into getting to Linux.
It goes back to OST days, but yeah, it's well not long.
It's my first Linux machine was a 16 megabyte 386 sx 40.
This is a 16 bit bus machine running at 40 megahertz.
So I was running a snail, but I was running the racing version.
Mine was a 300 megahertz and 30 megabytes of.
I'm trying to think I built the thing myself, so I'm trying to think what I put into it.
Nice little machine.
Yeah, well, I'm just saying that I remember when Linux.
Would run on.
Ridiculously small machine.
Oh, it still kind of does, too.
I mean, I have.
Well, I mean, I had a dam's fault.
It was like four meg.
Yeah, I think you just need to get the right ones like like poppy.
What's it?
It's called is some really low profile ones you can throw on.
Well, I found Q4 OS, which will run on like a two gig Raspberry Pi, which most every desktop says.
Forget it.
Yeah, I've been running actually mint for the longest time.
I'm juicy and a couple of probably been running.
So I got off directly to end up unity days.
They, you know, but before that, I'm open to say and before that.
I don't know, my memory is fading.
I think I definitely notes all my different ones, but I don't do that much distro happening.
My friend got me on mint about 11 years ago and kind of stayed on it for all my desktops, except for my server.
My desk, the easiest desktop in the world is mint.
I get other people into it because they look at my desktop to like, oh, that kind of looks like older windows.
I'm like, yeah, kind of not really why I like it because to me, windows looks like an older X desktop from Red Hat.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I digress.
I don't know with who invented the start menu first.
Just for your information and general hackery, somebody has reverse engineered OS 2.
And has updated it for more modern hardware, although the core is strictly 32 bit.
And it is a commercial operating system basically designed to keep alive.
A lot of the old OS 2 stuff, including ATM machines or industrial hardware, whatever.
I kind of had to.
I think up until recently, there's still a ton of before IBM sold off the whole ATM thing to die ball, but there was still a ton of OS 2 machines out there working the wild.
And we still had a bunch in the aisles, even after we turned over to B351 or whatever we changed.
But, you know, when I went off that and was getting a window, they still had to leave a bunch in the aisles because a bunch of our clients, city bank, a code, and stuff like that, we're so using them.
Well, I've been seeing when I went to hospitals, I saw a lot of XP and stuff.
There's an entire generation of people who say that we paid for once and we're not going to replace it regardless of what.
Yeah, I think you're breaking up.
Well, I found MX to be my cup of tea, XFCE.
It seemed to work pretty good for me on virtually everything.
Just use whatever you're used to and whatever you like, then the many Linux conferences are open so people argue it's better.
I don't know, I just use what I like. That's all I do. I don't switch off. That's what you like, that's what you like.
Well, let's face it, most of the time, you're in Firefox or name your browser here or you're on, name your text editor here or something or your version of Office,
library office, open office, you know, there are a cast of thousands there.
So basically everything runs the same regardless of what's on the boot screen.
Good morning.
Welcome, Morton C.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
My head just headphones on.
Hello, Ned, my knight.
Well, how's the prettiest lady in Thailand?
She is in Gen. Season 2 of Squid Games.
We will be flying back together in 31 days.
Well, that's, I know, when you're with Elle, you scarcely need to plane.
We're having lots of fun doing stuff sightseeing before we come back.
Well, I still want that photo of Elle by a nice tall snow pile.
It depends how much snow we have in February and March and maybe April.
Yeah, well, here it's nearly January and it's about 46 degrees.
So we're for some reason the white Christmas is staying far away from us here in the Boston.
Yeah.
And she's not ready for how cold it's going to be.
Yeah, I suspect.
Well, for one thing, I don't think you can even get clothes that are warm enough.
That first trip to your place is going to be amazing.
Well, she has a hoodie I brought for her and a lighter winter jacket,
which should be fine for, I don't know, at least above zero Fahrenheit.
It's pretty hefty coat, but then they wear those here when it drops.
When they go to areas that drop into the high fifties.
Yeah.
Yeah, besides, yeah, I just, I don't know if you heard the joke that I discovered last night.
Morton sees L's bow.
Bow.
Some people have pronounced it, but I believe it's French for boyfriends, let's fiance.
Yeah.
Back to the distro version, MX Linux is what she has on the laptop I brought her last year.
And the from the Starlapse laptop.
And that's what I have on the laptop in tablet that I bought from Starlapse also.
My only problem is I need to figure some about battery and power management,
because the battery life is sucks down, is only last a couple hours.
Well, I have a gaming laptop, which I have shut down for power reasons.
And the only reason that I'm on the Ubuntu on that is that I can't disable secure boot enough to run MX.
Thank you very much.
Hi, guys.
I tried again.
I did not hear anyone say they could hear me.
So I don't know.
Yeah, we can hear you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Did you hear me before?
Yeah, pretty sure.
I didn't hear you before.
Okay.
Well, I was on the Debian version of Bowdie before.
And now I just moved over to Mint because everything works in Mint.
Happy New Year, everyone.
We're not there yet.
100% of this year almost out.
Can't say I'm looking forward to the next one.
Well, my Christmas season has been kind of quiet.
Although I was kind of happy when my colonoscopy evaporated.
The hospital has strict requirements for transportation.
And I don't drive.
And my last friend who drove who was in this area is now down in Mississippi.
Yes, you have to have somebody with you who waits there and drives you home.
You can't take a bus or an Uber or anything.
Well, I'm going to be in and out right now.
I need to go out, but I'll be back, guys.
Okay.
See you.
I spent the first half hour of the show barking up the wrong server.
What?
I was on the lug cast server rather than the HPR server.
Yes, we had posted the news everywhere except on the lug cast podcast.
Besides, I'm a little slow by profession.
Also, I need to verify that I've been retired by the Social Security Administration.
So I know how to fill out my town census this year.
I had been on disability for a couple of decades.
But evidently, when you get to what they consider retirement age,
they change your designation.
So I'm no longer disabled.
I'm just retired.
Oh, me.
Now, there isn't an increase in nothing changes on the money front,
but it just comes out of a different pocket in the government from the same administration.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
