Episode: 4158
Title: HPR4158: Alexander's Introduction
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4158/hpr4158.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:29:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4158 for Wednesday the 10th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Alexander's Introduction.
It is the first show by new host Locky Boy and is about four minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Kevin's son Alexander introduces himself to the HPR community.
Hello, my name is Alexander McFaea.
I live in the island of Lewis in Scotland.
I am 14 and this is my first ever episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I heard about Hacker Public Radio from my dad or as most of you know him as Kevin.
I have been using Linux all my life as my dad won't have anything else on home computers.
I was given a computer by my neighbour at the end of 2021 but it was very old for Christmas
back here.
My dad bought new parts and made it up for me and on Christmas day I was given my computer
with a bunch of new installs.
But I knew that there was loads of different versions of Linux so I started testing others
and chose PopOS as my system as I am still using this today.
And you are gaming on my computer as my favourite app to use is Steam and I also have some
games from Golf and a few from the Pop Software Centre.
I am a YouTube teacher and I use Firefox as my browser.
I don't get to visit people as often as I would like but I keep in touch with my relatives
on the mainland using Jitsimit.
My favourite PC games are House Super, Udotruck and American Trucks Simulator and more recently
Udot.
My favourite YouTubers are Beard Meets Food, Ethics, Electric, Dan TDM, Stampigat.
My favourite YouTubers are Gaming, History and Food Challenges.
Certain phone apps that I use are UWP and Morsex which is a game we have to try and use
strategy and your mind to try and control forces.
I am a big tablet user and I use YouTube a lot from that and I also play a lot of games
on that as well.
For example, UWP and Morsex again, I do have that and I also like a bit to play a bit
of Candy Crush as well and that sounds pretty good.
On the Xbox I have three different Xbox, I have the original Xbox, I have Xbox 360
and Xbox One.
Let's start with the original Xbox.
So on the original Xbox I like to play stuff like Star Wars Republic, Commando, Simpsons
Hidden Run and Simpsons Roadridge.
On the Xbox 360 I like to play Saints Row 3 and Saints Row 2 and 4 and I also like to
play GTA 4 as well.
On the Xbox One I love to play Red Dead 2, Star Wars Battlefront 1 and 2.
I like to play, I like to watch YouTube but I like to watch Cody which is a streaming
app due to watch videos on and shows on and I also like to watch Disney Plus as well.
So that's pretty good.
I do have a Raspberry Pi called the Retro Pi where I get to play lots of games and I like
the Atari to use 600 games, the SNES games and I also like the NES games as well and there
is a few and the Game Boy Advance and all that.
One of my favourite games to do on the Atari is Real Sports Boxing where you basically have
to try and fight the computer or another or like an opponent of your choice like your
friend or your dad or somebody like that, you know, it's quite a fun game.
On the SNES games I like Super Mario Kart and Street Fighter, my favourite is Iehonda.
I'm sure people will debate about that but alright then.
And Super Mario Kart and I like Mario as my favourite character so that's pretty good as
well.
On the NES I like Super Mario Brothers and Tetris, I'm interested in history as my favourite
one of my favourite things to do in history is US Presidents and another fascinating part
about history is the World Wars, both one and two.
I also like classic comedies as well, one of my favourites are aloe, aloe, faulty towers,
podge, open all hours, you name it, I've got loads, thank you for listening to my introductory
podcast and hopefully you listen to Hacker Public Radio in the future, good day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
Posting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our sims.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
