Episode: 4354
Title: HPR4354: 24-25 New Years Eve show episode 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4354/hpr4354.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:40:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4354, for Thursday the 10th of April 2025.
Today's show is entitled, 24-25 New Year's Eve Show Episode 5.
It is hosted by Honki Megu and is about 108 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community comes together to say happy New Year and chat.
You sound like very distorted, my friend, very creepy.
You're taking like crazy, going to a pulse or whatever you're using, going to recording,
whatever Mike you're using from mumble, turn that down to maybe another quarter from
where it is right now.
To turn it down, fight.
Yeah, you're pegging like you're distorted.
Is it just me?
I mean, was he pegging?
To me, it was me.
No, you were…
I thought you were actually transmitting from inside a barrel, though.
It was 125%.
Mike about halfway, because it gets hot.
I know my mic gets hot when I'm recording podcasts and stuff, so I have to keep it around
half.
So, if your mic is like maybe at 100%, drop it to 50 and then test if it's at 50, drop
it to like, I don't know, 25, then test.
We coming up on another hour here, who's turn is it?
No, Moss, being you had mentioned it, and I had mentioned it earlier in tech and coffee
in about 50 seconds or about 47 seconds, I'll let you announce it.
Well, I don't know who's turn it is, so I can't announce it.
Why you announced the last one, so it's your turn, nobody announced the last one, I
just…
Hey, we have actually kind of dropped the announcing happy new year to every time zone,
because we were stumbling over our feet.
Well, I'm about to do it, or Moss is about to do it.
Whoever's time zone it is, happy new year.
It's going to be central…
Well, Eastern…
Well, no, Central Europe, or whatever, Western Europe, so Germany, Sweden, parts of Africa,
so we say happy birthday.
Well, happy new year as of three seconds ago, according to my…
Hell of a new year, you are!
Lennox Mintflug.
I have a cat attacking my foot right now, so I think she wants…
I will mute while I feed the beast.
George, I don't think I've heard your voice before.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, yeah.
Well, we're always in the tech and ca…
Well, I'm not always in, but there's a tech and ca…
Audio or video, and I think you were in there once or twice when I was in there.
Oh, could be.
I've seen someone else.
I think you were sitting on a couch with a cat or something.
I mean, mostly Yvonne and Jason talk a lot, so I talk to Jason a few times there.
Yeah, so I've been in there when you've been in there with Jason, but…
Go feed the cat before it murders you, George.
Yeah, no, she is really attacking my foot right now, so I'll be right back before she draws blood.
George's cat has a foot fetish.
Hello, anyone else?
I saw Net Minor.
Hey, boss.
Yeah, I'm here.
Oh, Joe's back.
Woo!
Yep.
I am back.
The printer's cranking away again.
What's your print in this time?
Oh, a shelf for the neck gear switch.
Okay.
Go on to that 10-inch rack.
Probably going to be printing for that for quite a while.
Trying to get things to work.
I just did my daily readings.
Reading right now only two books to my wife and another book to my best friend over in Detroit.
I took the dog for a jog.
He was quite excited to go around the block a couple of times.
When we, have you read any of the magic bird books by KM Shay?
No, they're kind of fun.
They are sort of weird opposite attract type romances, but there's a lot of magic and
fun stuff in them.
I went through the Arcane Case book just recently.
Let me see if I can look up the author on that.
I'm currently on the force trilogy of books by KM Shay on this one area.
It's different main characters in each trilogy with some overlap, and it's not like the
town stops being, it stops having those people in it.
It's just they're dealing with a different facet of it.
My testing done, nonetheless.
Oh, it's got this.
Yeah, got it.
What is this for?
You got it, man.
Dan Willis did the Arcane Case book series.
Oh.
I'm also listening, well, I finished that and I'm re-listening to the Proof-Craft series
by Brad Magnarella.
Hmm.
Do I even pass that by trying to hear as well, not for the boys?
Well, there's something wrong with your microphone then.
Try it at 10%.
Be honest with you, I have a mic here that if I don't have it around 8 or 10%, it kills
people.
That's all you can really do is keep dropping that sensitivity until you, you know, don't
sound like ass.
If you're using like PA UV or like pulse, like the pulse volume control, you go to the
recording tab and mumble and whatever mic is in there, just whatever it's set at, drop
it by half and then test again.
What mic are you using?
The one he's not talking on right now.
Ah.
Which one is that?
You can always go and play with Opie the repeater bot until he gets to figure it out.
Yeah, you should be able to do it in the settings.
Yeah, I tested with the Opie thing multiple.
Every time I come back in here when I leave my phone or I leave my tablet and I come back
in here off my PC, I always drop in there and just test it fast because sometimes, even
though I haven't killed mumble itself, I just kind of disconnect, sometimes the settings
change.
Like, I just like to make sure I'm not like killing people for myself.
You know, sometimes I remember to do that, but usually I just have the settings memorized
for each of the various headsets and microphones that I use.
Moss, I must say that thing you posted in tech and coffee took me about 20 seconds to catch.
I'm like, oh, I'm not the smartest fool in this ad, but you know, I got that from Rob
Win in Phil Kaven.
And I'm going, oh, that's got to be shared.
It's definitely a tech and coffee looks like, wait, what?
What?
Lying, it's old.
It's old.
It's an old Lying sign.
I got to tell you that the other day I was listening to old Lying sign in a playlist
where they had two or three renditions, including one was an English translation interspersed,
which was helpful.
That can be very powerful.
Yeah, the convention I go to in Georgia in early January, we always open up with a New
Year's Day party, New Year's Eve party, it doesn't matter.
We just declare it to be New Year's Eve and we sing all the verses.
We have it all printed out in the program and everything.
And you've never heard worse sluts accents in your life.
Well, what was really, one of the things that was really powerful is, is seeing someone
play that on the pipe and this particular set of bagpipes was not conventional or not
as ordinary as some that I've seen where all of the pipes are straight, the main pipe
or whatever had a dragon set on it.
Well, I do not have pipes.
Honestly, I have lusted for decades over some willing pipes and that's a whole different
story.
I also found out what willing pipes cost.
Well, I know that there are two, there are, there's a field size bagpipes and then there's
a more compact size, which was kind of surprising, but then again, since one of them is designed
to make sounds for our battlefield and the other one may be designed for somebody's
kitchen hearth, the size is makes sense.
I'm looking up to see what willing pipes go for on Amazon, of course, as the easiest
place to look.
Well in pipe, the practice set is $200, a half set is $3.99, boy, they've got a Scottish
bagpipes set for only $109.75, there's a bagpipes starter kit for $129.99, but I'm not
seeing any more willing pipes than the starter pipes and the half pipes.
You know, I probably could have gone to one of those souvenir-type shops and picked you
up some child's way, that was in Glasgow recently.
Well, some people have all the luck and can go all kinds of places.
Ah, I like that, I go visit mostly people, actually I made friends with a bunch of Scotsman
going dog hands, but yeah, I guess, I don't know, guess I did luck out, I don't know.
I only do it like once a year, well, I've rarely had enough money to keep the roof over
my head.
Travel is something that's very much a luxury.
Yeah, I guess, I used to pretty much live paycheck to paycheck, I started trading, lucked
out, I guess.
I also did have a decent job with the bank too, I mean, I'd be, I'm paid pretty well,
but the bank actually kind of tops back.
Watch back.
I worked for Wells Fargo, I worked for Wacovie, well, I worked for First Union in the
Bia there, but I did it when they switched over to using the Wacovie name.
Technically, it was still First Union, they just wanted the name, so they bought the bank
for the name because First Union's name was garbage in the banking room.
And then, and Wacovie always had a, you know, they always had a good reputation up until
the 2007 Fiasco, and then, then that's when they got sold for pennies on the dollar to Wells
Fargo.
Then it was awful, yeah, it's like all my bonuses went away, I got treated like a second,
I got treated like, I don't know, like this is being broadcast, so like the Germans marching
into France, and I was in France.
Work for Bank of America, that's why I ask.
Oh, I had a Charlotte, did you work at a Charlotte?
No, I do talk to a lot of the people in Charlotte, and I mess around with the servers in
Charlotte, but I'm in the Dallas Fort Worth area.
Have you, okay, I mean, have you been in the Charlotte building?
It's really nice.
I have not.
Oh my gosh.
I mean, I've been in the, the three Wells Fargo, I used to call them, I used to go in there
and call them Wac, because it was one Wac, two Wac, three Wac, and then they had 18 key
building around the corner, but Wac, go in there and visit friends or sometimes work in
the trading floor there, but our buildings were nice, but, you know, every once in a
while, we go, because there's bridges that connect all the, like over street bridges that
connect all the buildings, so we'd go to, I don't know, like one of the other Java type
coffee places and cross over there and, and, you know, going, going in that little lobby
where, where all the Bank of America, little mall thing, it was super nice, way better
than Wacovia.
Oh, what would you do for the bank?
Were you a programmer?
Were you batch support?
What?
Oh, okay.
So, so I, I actually, so there's a story behind it, actually, there's a whole story
is actually in a podcast up here in HPR, but I was working for the IBM company type thing
and I got laid off for my third time, so I decided not to work for them anymore.
And so I was just collecting pennies and stuff and then I was like, okay, my wife decided
she wanted me to get out of the house and work, so I put in for a bunch of jobs and one
of them was a camp job working in there.
So it was like a tier one support desk, but within three months, I became tier two and
I started working for developers like I did.
So I basically did the same thing I did at IBM, I just, I, I supported the health desk
through developers.
So I was the go between between developers and clients usually, like at IBM, but in this
case, I was the go between between the tier one health desk and our development team because
they couldn't talk to them directly, but I could, I guess, so we tested a lot of things.
We were dangerous enough to be developers.
They hired me for my Lotus and my Blackberry skills, believe it or not.
Two things that almost don't exist anymore are one of them, it's almost the other ones.
Well, it's a company.
I mean, they do cyber security stuff, Blackberry, actually, the Lotus stuff is surprisingly
useful because open office and all of the office products are basically, and even Microsoft
office are upgrades on the Lotus route.
I mean, the Lotus smart sweet stuff, like from 2000.
Well, I only did just based on the Oracle office stuff that they gave me.
Yeah, but I'm, I'm saying the spreadsheet models that everybody uses.
123, yeah, 123 was definitely developed by Lotus, which is based at a Cambridge at IBM
Bot.
Pretty much when I was working.
And then, yeah, no, no, yeah, no, I get you.
Tivoli too.
I did, they bought Tivoli software as well.
And I was working on the transference of Tivoli resources as well.
A lot of us were put on different projects, like even though we did one thing, sometimes
we're like, well, you're good at this, so go work over here.
Oops.
I was good at a lot of that stuff when I was younger, and all I could ever manage to
get where secretary of level jobs.
And so I never, despite the fact that all my work was on computers, and I was training
other people to use the software that wasn't good enough, I was still just a low level
secretary, and they could fire me whenever they wanted to.
Yeah, I was a Pion too.
I mean, I was a higher up Pion, actually, at the bank I had an AVP, like I'm going to
say, when you say you're an AVP, basically cashiers are AVPs if they've been there long enough.
I mean, I just got the title because I got an advanced position, and I only got the
advanced position because I was doing similar work.
I spent a long time as an AVP, and then, yeah, they made me a VP, and it still means absolutely
nothing.
Oh, it's nothing, man.
I'm sure there's janitor too, but it's an extra day off a year is what it was to me.
Back when I was between jobs, I was doing accounting under Lotus 1, 2, 3, 2.4 under
DOS, and the system had been developed under the original Lotus and expanded, and somebody
saw him coming because he sold him an over-priced 386 SX.
But the reason he was using Lotus 2.4 is the magnification.
The print magnification allowed him to view his files, magnified.
He had very bad eyes at the time.
But I have actually hacked on more Lotus 1, 2, 3 than I care to think about.
I mean, I know much about it, but I was doing checks both vertical column checks and horizontal
column checks.
So I was, for somebody who hadn't been having any accounting background, I was doing pretty
good.
Yeah.
I was doing Lotus 1, 2, 3, I was doing Word Perfect.
I was doing Debase 3, I don't know if I ever caught on to 4, I don't, I by the time 4 came
out people were moving on to the Microsoft product, which I'd rather not name.
But I was pretty good with that stuff, and they could get me jobs, at least temporary jobs,
and some people wanted to hire me, and I just was making more money than they were willing
to pay me.
I've been working for a temporary agency, and I just never got hooked on anywhere, and
here I am.
Well, I lied myself into my first job, so I literally lied through my teeth, and they hired
me, and I could fake the rest, and I did for years.
Oh, I had one class at a junior college in Basic, and I have rarely been without a computer
sense then.
But again, all they would give me were a secretary, all the administrative assistant jobs, and
they wouldn't make them permanent.
Well, with my bipolar slash autism, I literally had one person say, well, what, I'm supposed
to just make accommodations for you?
Well, you know, I'm training half your staff, half the work getting done here because I
taught someone else how to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I mean, IBM was the same way.
There was years I was doing blackberry sports.
There was four of us, three of us, by the time they trained us, but we were doing blackberry
support, and then they realized none of us were blackberry TQ certified.
So we had to get certified at again to actually work on these, even though we had been working
on them for years, and we were in the panels and everything.
We were doing all the developer work, and like, you know, just the back end stuff, because
you know, we had to, we worked between across between MBS and multi-video system mainframe
to lotus notes that went over to blackberry, so the service text could write part to orders
on their blackberries, and it would go through the notes database, and the notes database
would populate the MBS.
I know it was really strange, and multiple developers figured all that stuff out, but I'm
the guy who had to make sure there was no errors.
Yeah.
Well, I could have done that, but I wasn't the right place, right time.
Well, I never thought I was going to get out of being a machinist or any like that.
I mean, that was not bad job.
We either almost got killed multiple times during that, but, you know, it's hard to get
killed like when you're sitting on a, you know, on a phone call with people screaming
eggs.
But, but yeah, so I mean, I mean, I'm just going to, it's like, you write, it's like
right place, right time, and I just happen to be in the right place at the right time.
I had a friend that was working there, and they were hiring, and he goes, you're always
good to computers, you're building stuff, and I kind of research what the job was, read
up on a bunch of books, and at the time I had a decent memory, and my memory wasn't shot
like it is now.
And I just memorized a bunch of the stuff, and when they asked questions, I had the right
answers out of my head, you know, like, he knows his stuff, and I'm like, no, I don't.
Well, what really kills me is the last year I've had about 10 or 15 headhunters come
after me and say, hey, we found this job that goes right up your alley, and I'm going,
you wouldn't even look at me.
I mean, I'm 72 years old, you wouldn't give me the job if I was the most qualified.
Oh, they're still reaching out to me, like, through what's the space of, whatever, I get
males, and other things, I get like little, so-and-so's trying to reach out to you.
I had Deutsche Bank, because they're right up the road here, Deutsche Bank has that thing
right up the road here, and they reached out to me, they reached out to me years ago for
Blackberry stuff, but they reached out to me recently when the last year and a half
say, and it was a job that it was database oriented, and so they reached out, and I gave
them my salary, you know, and I said, like, I can, I want to work from home half the time,
and I want to, because I'm used to remote work, and, you know, I gave them, like, things,
and I told them what my salary, what I expected to be, and, you know, I'll be damned if they
just sent me a nasty letter and never called me.
I mean, I technically didn't want to work anymore, but it was just one of those things,
like, well, I need this, and, you know, I need up until, you know, I can work these hours,
and so-because, I mean, I trade until about 10 to 12, so I do limit trade, so, and then
I just get off and see if my trades went through by the end of the day, so, you know, I mean,
that's what I do, and so I was like, I can do that, I mean, if I'm working at home, I usually
had the two desks, I have these two origami desks, side by side, I did a work one, and the
trading desk, and I would just trade on the one while I was working on calls, I do the research,
I trade, I do some limits, I do some ETF trades, and, you know, and I could, kind of like, it
was like I was doing two jobs at once, one was working for me, one was working for that,
yeah, salary was definitely consistent, I mean, I was always getting a paycheck, the other
one was kind of like, yeah, I mean, I was getting paid, but I didn't know if you heard me
earlier, I was talking about the trading I've been doing, I'm not much of a trader, but I don't
have any money to put into it, so I just do what I can. I started out with 200 a month, but then
again, mind you, I was making like a lot of money, I was working, I was working for IBM at the time
when I first started trading, and then because, and I'm actually, I think I'm, because I did this
at my bank, I did a talk on this, and it's supposed to be published on HPR soon, somebody else has the
file, but I did a talk on like trading with open source, like what things I use, because you
can't use open source for everything, or certain things, I just have to, you know, but I'm
trading on my Linux boxes, but I told people all I'm doing is I started out with $200 a month,
I can spare $200 at the time, yeah, that's what we're doing, and I was like, I started out with
that, and then I started out doing auto trades, now auto trades kept me going for a long time,
because after my wife passed away, I kind of like, didn't touch the trading for like almost
three years, like, and the auto trades were just doing it for me, like the things I had in place
for auto trades from share builders day to e-trade bottom, they were just auto trading $200,
well actually, at the time, it was more like $600, the $600 worth of stuff forming, and it was
whatever, I mean, I was trading on standards, so I was trading like Apple, and IBM, and you know,
like the stuff that boosts your stock, that keeps your portfolio from failing, you have to have a lot
of standards in there, you can take a couple chances, but you have to have standards, you have to have,
you have to have like things that aren't going to fail, yeah, of course I thought that about
blockbuster back in the day when they're either A and B stocks, they're too big to fail, but anyways,
why, like, $600 at the same time, I don't know, $200, the B stock, now they're worth nothing.
Isn't that what index funds are for? Yeah, yeah, yeah, you think,
but I've got a little bit of stock in a few little ETFs, and I also thought I had it, I bought
a bunch of pot stocks, five of them to be exact, I figure they're not worth anything right now,
but if they, if pot ever gets legalized in the US nationally, then those are going up.
Yeah, but look who just got an office, it's not going to get legalized anytime.
They were actually talking about voting for legalization in Florida.
Yeah, well, Florida, I mean, our grand governor already put a caboch on all of that anyways,
and it got down, because the way they voted it was like, it had to get 60% or something like that,
and it had to get a certain percentage, right, to pass, or maybe 70 or something like that,
and I think it got like, I don't know, 52 or something. Yeah.
So like, I didn't pass, sorry. It didn't pass, it didn't pass with enough.
It didn't pass, because they put stipulations on it. Yeah, because our, our,
like the way Ohio, Ohio tried to, Ohio tried to boost the level of approval for the abortion measure,
and that people knew it was going on, and they did not let them get away with that.
Are these, these guys, yeah, they are just total, and he tried, well, I mean, our governor
tried to ban the Democratic Party here, and Florida was like, what kind of Nazi move is that?
Yeah, one of my best ETFs is IAPR, but right now they just got where one of their largest
lessors decided to let six of their 11 properties go into default, and apparently,
according to their contract, that means the other five go into default too, and the word is that
they're just trying to get a better contract. But right now, IAPR is tanking, and it did great
place, great time to buy because they have come out of several tanks in the past when a large
client has trouble making their bills, and then they managed to find someone else or,
or clean it up. But that's been my favorite stock. Yeah, yeah, sorry, can I, I didn't see,
can I get a pause? It's okay, you can do it with chunk of us now. Now on the side chat,
I wasn't paying attention. We have a side chat, and all I see is people entering and leaving.
Well, it's not a side chat, just telling me when people are coming and going, but, you know,
this is the side chat. But, you know, it's just, oh, I did see, can I get a pause? Yeah, I mean,
I've always noticed, because anytime I was leaving, I'll say I'll be right back or something,
and I'll put it in there. I'm wondering why, like, people were going into the route, but never
coming in here. There was, like, the love bug was in there all night, and I jumped in the
like, you guys can jump in HBR anytime you want. I'm here now. He's here. So the love bug has
been around for a very long time. He knows that. You know, he knows I'm going to slap the
living crap out of him too, because that's usually what I do. And he'd like, hey, George, you're still
in route two. Oh, two of me are in route. Well, one of me is in route. Yeah, no, I have two other
devices. So I jumped on my phone and my tablet every once in a while. I'll just mix one in here,
but I think my phone, my phone just, George, quit hogging the internet. It's a limited resource.
You can't use it all yourself. I don't give a crap. Don't give a crap. Don't give a crap.
The crap is not given. I can't. I'm going the earth. Today, my phone, my phone got a connection
refused. So I think my, my VPN dropped. Anyway, we're all talking over each other so much and
using such poor mic etiquette that I didn't even hear Claudio Miranda. Claudio, having a year.
I'm actually going to step back. Good to hear you. It's been a while too. My New Yorker says,
step back because I'm going to take over. So I'm going to step back. Hi, Ben. Claudio, I'm sorry.
How's everybody been? But Claudio, I recognize. They're complaining. Sure you can, Joe. You do all the
time. I know. But I like to lie to myself and say that I don't. I've been good, Pokey. I've been
good. Been very busy. They're very busy since, I guess, when was the last time we spoke? I don't
even remember. Probably 365 days ago. Really? I think we may have missed each other. I don't
know if we caught each other. I don't remember. I'm getting old. It could have been 280. Don't
talk to me about getting old. It could have been two years ago. It really could have been. You're
right. No, I don't, I don't mean to only say hello to Claudio. I'd like to say hello to everyone,
everyone in the room, everyone on the earth listening, but we were feeling left out. Yeah. But I do
have a little catch enough to do with Claudio. If you guys don't mind for just a couple of it,
go for it. So, Pokey, what's good? What's what you bet to since? Oh, lots of everything,
but what's neat, what you might be interested in, is my mom started playing in Piano in the last,
I don't know, nine to 15 months? No, very good. Very good. I actually need to get back to it because
it's been too long. I just have not had enough time. I just recently got engaged. So,
they're times a charm. But this one's definitely the one. So, she's a good one. She's a keeper.
Everyone tells me she's a keeper. She's a keeper. Last one. Yeah. Now, kick her down to,
kick her down the road. Moss took me to number six. Okay. So, six times a charm. I wasn't sure
if it was five or six, I couldn't remember. So six times a lot of normal people. He just wanted
to do three times twice, you know, just to be sure. Well, it's the first one that stayed with me for
more than a couple of years. So, I'm happy, sort of. Hey, George, could you turn your mic off when
you're not talking? Everyone's slapping back through your mic. Thank you, sir, or Madam, or whatever.
It's George, yeah. George, thank you, George. So, yeah. So, Claudio, it's astonishing to me, what I've
learned since my mom has started playing keyboards. It's astonishing to me how expensive electric
keyboards are, and how free and heavy real pianos are. Yeah, yeah. And upright going to be
an expensive addiction. upright pianos are not even being able to be given away in most parts
of the country. So, to get someone, I've been watching Greg's list for a bit, to get someone to
take your upright piano for free, you have to say it's been recently tuned. Or maybe you have to
say, I have a truck. I'll move it for you. Oh, I haven't seen that yet. If we saw that, we'd take it.
I'm not even joking. We'd take that. Ivory keys for me to free delivery.
Yeah, so long as it doesn't, along as it doesn't detune in the way. Well, sadly, I don't have room
for even an upright piano, but I've got all these guitars. And I still don't play nothing with
the skin flute. And in the mouth harp, I can do the the juice harp or the mouth harp.
Not well, just do a little. I've got three guitars of violin, auto harp, a Celtic lap harp,
a whole bunch of penny whistles and weird things like kazoo's and such. So musical instruments I've
got. Two questions for you then, if you don't mind. Number one, what is an auto harp? And number two,
is a $25 violin worth the money just to dittle around with? Number one, auto harp is something that
has many strings and has a bunch of pads that go across the strings that deaden all the strings
except the one that that pad is corded for. And so you push down the pad, you strum all the strings
and you get a single cord. Oh, weird. They are very popular in school systems. In fact,
mine was a used school auto harp. But the problem is if you do need new strings, which I do right now,
the cheapest set I can find is 75 bucks. That's not bad for a passion. I know people who spend 75 bucks
on a video game. As far as what was your second question, is a $25 violin worth it? That would
depend on the $25 violin. And what you want to do with it, if you want to play it, it's probably
not worth it. If you want to hang it on the wall, it's probably a good price. No, it's a garbage
violin. It's an Amazon return. And I just want to see if my fingers work on the neck and my
other hand works on a bow. Yeah. Yeah, what? Well, I don't know enough about violins really. I have
one. I haven't completely learned to play it. And now I need to get the bow re-strong.
You can always 3D print one. Not a ball, but you know, a violin. I don't have a 3D printer. You know,
Matt Lyle would be if I asked him to mail me a book. He'd print it in a minute. But if I asked
him to mail it to me, he'd be so mad. And he wouldn't say so. He'd be just be like, all right,
for you anything, because Lyle's the best. The best what? You're ahead and ad lib it.
Fill in the blank. He's the best of that, whatever you want to fill in the blank with.
Well, I know that Joe saved my butt a few times. I still got to find a box to ship you this i5
m700 tiny, Mr. Joe. Oh, yeah. Thank you. I will definitely put it to good use.
Go on, Joe. How did you save his butt? I fixed things for him. I sent him stuff.
What was your favorite one thus far? What did you put the most love into?
Probably that m700 tiny with the i7. I mean, yeah, that one he had to literally buy
another machine to get a motherboard. I tried fixing it, but I put some time into the old motherboard,
but I ended up damaging the ram controller. So I bought him another motherboard that had an i3
and then I did a swap. What's a m700? Because I did that with a with a elite book for a buddy of mine.
I broke one of the pinouts, one of the ribbon grabber gazoinks. But what? The m700 tiny is a cute
little mini box made by Lenovo. It's under the think center brand. It barely takes up any space
on your desk, especially if you sit it vertically, has all the connection connectivity you'd want.
The ones we're working on are 2016 models. So they have six generation i3, i5, and i7s.
That was my last question was the gear. So thank you for preempting that.
Mine has 16 gigs of RAM on it. It's got a couple of connections for m2 drives and it's just
a cute little thing. Right now, I don't have the m2 slot used. I have the hard drive slot used
with an ssd. I never heard of more than one m2 drive, but that kind of gives me a bit of a chubby.
And it's just a cute little thing. My chubby, how dare you? I never heard your chubby.
He met very cute and very little. My chubby, how dare you too?
Joe, you were saying? I said what I was saying. What else was I saying?
You were starting to say something about my m700. You were saying how much love you put?
I want to hear about the love you put into it. Oh no, I just put a lot of work into it. I mean,
he'd also sent me a... Well, I still got to replace the crystal on that um, um,
multimeter that he sent me. Um, but I had my multimeter and I spent probably a couple of hours
trying to find out what was wrong with that thing, why it was randomly just not turning on and
then randomly would turn on. So it was easier in the end for me just to spend the... What was it?
30 bucks for a new motherboard? Yeah. Well, that makes sense, yeah. Yeah. You can just buy a
used machine for parts for 30 bucks and yeah, I bought the I5 new for 90, 95 bucks in whole working
order. And crystals, can you buy them on their own or do you got to get the whole lightsaber?
Um, usually you have to build your own lightsaber so you have to source those crystals yourself
along with the power supply and casing. It's recommended that you actually pass some force
through the crystal to make sure that it'll channel correctly and that it's very tuned to you
and works with your fighting style. So that doesn't make sense to me. How would you make a lightsaber
out of crystal? And nobody understands how painful that is. People think it's like,
oh, he's waving his hand. No one understands how that hurts so bad. Are we having three different
conversations? I'm pretty sure we are. Seems like it. Joe is also a wonderful person because he buys
batches of broken headphones and fixes them and just gives them away. Joe, did we talk last year
you sent me links for wireless earbuds? It sounds like something I would do. You're the man, Joe.
I didn't follow your advice, but you're still the man. It might not have been last year,
it might have been the year before because last year my dog was busy dying so I didn't spend a
whole lot of time on the show. Oh, I'm so sorry. Yeah. Yeah, Joe's on a few podcasts. He got TLL
PS and Mintcast and I'm forgetting the other one, Joe. Linux Logcast. Oh, that one. Yeah.
With Hockey and Minix and Mordancy and NetMiner. I know Hockey and I know Mordancy a bit. I don't
participate much anymore except for on New Year's Eve. So I apologize if everyone thinks I'm
butting in. That's what the show is all about. Button in. Yeah, after all this talk about your
chubby. I don't know why you want to butt in. Chubby butt. Cute and tiny. Cute tiny chip. There's
there's a joke. There's somewhere. But we've about beat it to death. Stop being your chubby, Joe.
Never. So I thought we were talking about Linux and computers and stuff that all of a sudden we weren't.
I don't know how like two thirds of my conversations about Linux somehow turn into, you know,
genitalia jokes. Sorry, that was me. Oh, my bad. So where it happens when you're not here, too?
That's this thing that was great relief to hear. This time it was you. This, there's not a whole
lot of places I can go in my life as an adult and tell dick jokes. So I really appreciate you guys
not being too offended. Have you ever listened to the logcast? I think so. It's like 90% dick and fart jokes.
I wasn't just talking to the two of you. There's other people listening to this podcast right now,
just maybe not right now to like now. Yeah, they did kind of want this to be clean but it's not
going to happen. So that was over like 10 minutes after show started. Let's be honest.
It's it's kind of like Godwin's law, but you know, we're about dicks and farts.
If someone sits and listens to each chunk before it's published, they can give it a clean flag.
You're talking about appropriate, but that hasn't happened since 2011.
That's too much work for hockey. I don't know if hockey knows this, but there is
getting to be a growing chain of chicken finger restaurants called Huey Magus.
In what part of the country, sir? Well, I know there's one in Morristown, Tennessee.
I love Tennessee. Let's see. I think honky magus would have been a better name.
I have not begun planning a vacation to Tennessee in 2025, but I do expect a vacation in Tennessee
in 2025. Well, there are a couple on Fort Lauderdale, Florida. No, I'm not going to Florida.
Well, I know, but George is already in Florida. Oh, I'm not going to Fort Lauderdale. That's a
hellish town. I'd rather stay here. Huey Magus chicken tenders voted best fried chicken in Florida.
What's the matter about that? My dog attacked me and my camera, which readjusted all my out.
So if there's one in the middle of a dog like heaven, I don't think anybody heard anything that
was just said from anyone. I'm just saying if there's one in Morristown and it's based in Florida,
then it's a growing chain. So, Poki, you saying that I got to go, I got to go to you to meet up?
Where are you? Florida. What part? Wayne South.
I go to Florida when I see you.
What are you and Poki? I could meet you in Cuba. No, I could meet you in Pensacola.
Where's Pensacola? Northwest. What's in the face of Florida? Florida. It's just outside of Coca-Cola.
Maybe. No, I could meet you in Alabama somewhere or near Alabama. Where are you, Poki? New Hampshire.
New Hampshire. Oh, New Hampshire all the time when I was in the Northeast.
That was a dumb answer. I should have said New England because when I worked for a call center and
people said, where are you? What state are you in? I'd say New England and no one ever said that's not
a state. You could have just said New Hampshire and be all but a laugh. New Hampshire, yeah, for sure.
Well, there apparently aren't any Huey Magus there. No, there's none. I've never heard anything.
In fact, even the name wouldn't fly up here. We could shut down in no time.
No, I'm not getting New Hampshire's like North Massachusetts now. So everything's like all
prim and proper. Everyone thinks it's supposed to like be prim and proper in a name like that
wouldn't fly up here. It just doesn't. You did have flood records though because I remember a
flood record. That's not prim and proper. Did have double pass tents. Yeah, flood records is
pretty much gone. I think there's probably maybe two left. There's the biggest to be all in the
Northeast. But no hooters, no twin peaks. You're making my point for me. That was a question.
We've got pretty much two hooters. We've got like two flood records here in South Florida.
I've never heard a twin peaks except for the TV show. I don't think I've ever seen a flood
record. But I've heard of them. Well, there aren't very many flood records left but there is one in
the severeville Tennessee. I love severeville. It's my favorite Tennessee town right next to
Bucky's. Well, there's a registered recently had a Bucky's experience. I recently had the
experience of Bucky's. So yeah. Oh, wait, that's right. I live in Texas. I have one of these trees.
I know. Can you imagine being overwhelmed by Bucky's? Can you imagine how sick of it you'd be?
Okay, so I had I had the as we were traveling, we're doing a road trip to to move my my fiance's
daughter from Tampa over to Oklahoma. That's too long of a story to get into. But anyway, so we were
helping her with that. And on the way, we stopped at a Bucky's. I'd never been. So I had one of
their sandwiches. I loved it. I don't remember where it was. I did it somewhere in Georgia. I don't
remember. No, no, no, it wasn't. Obviously not. He said Georgia. He said he was taking it. No,
no, but that's yeah, yeah, it's Oklahoma. Eat it. Well, that's a little better than what he just
meant promise him you didn't drop your sister in law tonight. Now I get it. He's concerned for
your family's welfare. Right. Gotcha. So yeah, that they that had the pull pork sandwich for lunch.
Very good. Where my fiance had the brisket was very good. Then we stopped at another Bucky's
somewhere. I don't remember where that was, but yeah, I had the triple X brisket, which I kind of
overdid it. I think I bid off a little more and I could chew. And that was it. I don't want to
have any more Bucky sandwiches after that. Well, the problem with Bucky's is that
did you even try the jerky or the fudge? Okay, so the jerky you gave me another reason to try it.
But I did I didn't try the fudge, but I did have the candy nuts. How could you try the jerky?
It's the only gets when you walk through the doors. The first thing you smell your hit on the head
with a jerky smoked smell mallet. How do you not try the jerky? Well, we ran too fast inside and
had to go to the restroom. That's why we did go to the brand new Bucky's in. Don't you want my
weights, you dumbass? And we did not go inside, but we did do the car wash. And it was really
cheap for a car wash. The fun thing was that the gas there was $1.79 a gallon. And if you went through
the car wash, you got another 75 cents a gallon off. If my gas tank were bigger than three and a half
gallons, I would care about such value. Mine's 11.3, but yeah. I will say though, Claudio,
no, I want to forget what it's going to say. My issue with Bucky's is that it's too popular.
Too many people want to go there. Yeah, there's a lot of people there. Their bathrooms are very clean
though. Oh, yeah. But that's, that's, that's a, that's a, that's an old Yogi bearer saying nobody
goes to the ballpark anymore. There's too many people there. Exactly. And we've always said that,
we said that about every Linux and free software, social media that's ever existed. It was fucking
great. So the people showed up. I still, I still go to Bucky's. I still get the fudge. I don't get
the jerky, but I will go get me some peanut butter fudge. Joe, you said you live in Texas? Yeah.
Yeah, well, no doubt you don't go to Bucky's. It's everywhere. See, the nearest Bucky's to me is a
billboard that says Bucky's 1,600 miles this direction. So no, I'm not kidding. So for me,
it's a destination. And every time I've gone, I've been thrilled. I've been very pleased.
And Claudio said he headed straight to the bathroom. How to free Goodwood Oath's bathrooms,
Claudio. That's what I was going to say. Well, it's only about 45 minutes to the nearest one
for me. But well, how, how were your bathrooms when Claudio used them then? I have not had Claudio
used my bathrooms. Oh, you should try. You wouldn't want to use them after I get through them.
That's fair. I challenge that remark. Challenge is accepted. All right, now we're just going to meet
somewhere in Alabama or North West Florida or Georgia. How close are you to the, um, the, um,
B starts with the B race car museum. What the hell is that? Well, I know that from where I,
well, where I used to live, which is a little bit north for, I live now, uh, it was about 14 hours
to get to South up in, uh, what was it? I forgot where it was, uh, Spartanburg. Wait, wait,
many years ago. Spartanburg, I think, is Tennessee. No, North South Carolina. South Carolina. Okay,
thank you. I've been through Sparkleburg lately. Oh, yeah. But yeah, we went, I went through,
it took me 14 hours to get to Spartanburg. So maybe about 12, I remember. I remember I just
thought that Jacksonville for gas and, uh, and, uh, pit stop. Are you watching Formula One crashes
in your living room, Claudio? What is going on there? No, we're outside. Actually, my, my fiance and I
ride. We're doing a, uh, a patio project. We're making a, uh, so fired up pallets, uh, and
publishing fireworks. That sounded like more than fireworks. Don't know. Well, this is South Florida.
Well, we're coming up on another hour. Who gets it this time? London? Anybody know? Oh, I don't
know. I don't have the map up, but I don't even have a link to them. Before it should be, it should
be London now. Actually, boss, it's going to be deeper in. So it's going to be like Eastern Europe
right now. Um, hold on. Uh, I had the map here. Second. Oh, I think your world is turning the wrong
direction. No, I mean, what am I talking about? I mean, it should be, um, it should be like Iceland
or mid-Atlantic. Oh, so we missed London already. Oh, yeah. Two hours. That was seven o'clock was
London. Oh, okay. Yeah, Iceland, Greenland. I don't know which one's bigger, but the, the Eastern
part of whichever one of them and the western part of the other. Greenland, small. So yeah, just
most of the Greenland and a 80-bit-bit of Iceland then. Just a subtle map I found. It won't be
good. Yeah, it's mid-Atlantic. So whatever other small tiny island nations in the south,
Atlantic or something, that might exist. All right, five points to everyone who finds the
80-bit island, who's up next. There's, uh, there's a British protectorate that's some big rock out there
that it's only accessible by like, I don't know, like a postal transport ship or something. Yeah,
name or the airport. It's got one flight in a month or something. We need a name. Oh, I don't
remember. I saw a YouTube thing on it. So let's see. Uh, it's, it's in the Atlantic. Oh,
let me find it. Um, let's see. British protectorate, British.
All right, I had to switch headsets. How does that sound?
How does your headset sound? You tell us. Yes. How does the microphone on my headset sound?
Oh, the mic sounds very good. Okay, thank you. I'm an echoing off of George.
Oh, sorry. I'm just fine. So, Pete, happy new year somewhere. Happy new year!
Happy new year. Whatever protectorate in the mid-Atlantic and parts of dry land.
I think I should spend the rest of the evening with my wife. She's probably feeling a little
neglected right now. Okay, I probably should spend it with my cat. Now, leave what?
No, your cat doesn't feel neglected. I'll just take it out of your later.
She's literally sleeping next to me. She doesn't get too pressed. Yeah.
The cats usually neglect you or me. Yeah, whatever. Not mine. My cats are all very much
interested in getting held and petted and sleep on me and whatever.
Cats is happy. Our return is always making events. All right, well, I'm going to take off now
that we've seen someone else have a new year. Okay, Moswell. It's great talking to you. I mean,
I guess the first thing we actually talked even that we've been in tech and coffee.
Yeah. Hey, Joe, you know your vape picks up real well on that microphone.
Thanks. No, like super loud. I'll remember to mute next time.
All right, I'll talk to you guys later. Joe, I'll talk to you sometimes.
Have a good one. Too distant. Yeah. Have a good night and have a happy new year.
Yeah, happy new year, Zavalia. Happy new year.
Happy new year. Happy new year. Happy new year to be Shasta.
I'm taking England, so does that count?
Absolutely on New Year's. Maybe only on New Year's, but it absolutely counts tonight.
Hey, I love England. I used to live up in the Northeast, so it's really great to have it
down here for one. Hey, there is no England in the Northeast. I'm sorry to disappoint you.
The England is pretty good. That's one of my go-to's along with Amber Bach, but I have been spoiled
because my fiance and I went to Germany during the week of Thanksgiving and yeah, so now I'm just
drinking German beer. Which German beer can you get in America that spoil you against American
micro brews? Well, thankfully, total wine provides them. So a hacker, sure, adding a,
can't think of any other ones. Well, the bar signer, which is you can find pretty much almost
anywhere. I haven't heard of that one. I have been... Hey, he's lying to you. He's actually
sitting at home drinking slits. Hey, you know, that's more my dad drink. That's only on special days.
That's only on special days. Old English. We're perhaps flew ribbon. Yeah, I, there's
loads of stores near me, but one in particular, it's really, really good that has an entire wall
in a really long wall of just micro brews. And I mean, like, they got, they got signs over the doors
for like the first two or three for the states that are close, but then they have like just everything
else. So yeah, there's, we got loads of selection here. Yeah, for us, total wine is a bit of a drive
now, but it's worth it. It's like the toys that rust for us. I don't drink a whole lot of beer
anymore. I usually, I mean, I do sometimes, but it's so carby and I'm so fat that I try to
resist drinking beer. Yeah, same here. I try not to drink too much of it, but every once in a
while, I'll indulge. Usually during a week, I don't drink, but these two weeks, you know, I'm home,
because we're on winter recess, both of us. So yeah, we're kind of ruined at this point.
Well, these two weeks are special. They're different. Man, this microphone picks up everything.
It's kind of annoying. It's not bad, but I never would have guessed you were vaping. The sound
that came through was so loud. I don't even know what I would have guessed that that sound was.
If I hadn't been told, it was a vapor. I thought you were in the shower for a minute.
Yeah, showers close. It was real hissing.
It more sounds like when I was seven years old than PBS went off the air for the night.
Oh, and they put that tone on? No, before the tone. No, after the tone.
That was a big PBS fan as a kid. We didn't have cable and I didn't sleep.
So that's how I got interested in Red Dwarf and Dr. Who?
I love Red Dwarf, can't stand Dr. Who. In fact, when I was a kid, after the tone went off,
we thought it was static. Now I know it's cosmic background radiation.
Isn't that the same thing? I'm not a physicist. I'm not a physicist. Don't ask me to answer that
question, because someone will hold me to it someday. And then I'll feel like a dope.
Because it's being recorded in a way, it will be listened to by millions of people.
Yeah, when I'm trying to get my, my, doesn't on the Supreme Court, they'll play it back and be like,
this fucking dope, don't know the difference between cosmic background radiation and static on PBS.
So do you like the new Dr. Who, or not Dr. Who stuff, but Red Dwarf stuff that came out in
the last couple of years? Not anything that I've seen, but I haven't given it much of a chance
because I didn't like it. Hey, Tray. What? Oh, Tray showed up on the Jitsy. Hello, hello. Hey, Tray.
How are y'all doing? Old. Old. Yep, I feel it. Old, old, old. You can't tell by the gray in the beard.
If I haven't dyed it in a while, I'm sorry. I'm gonna give a little bit of the salt and pepper
going in the beard and in the hair and yeah. Just starting you young pup. Aw, he's just a baby.
So to answer your question about Red Dwarf, to answer more than what you asked, I didn't even like season eight.
Season eight did kind of suck because they brought everybody back and you know, it wasn't just the crew anymore.
Right. But when it came, okay, season nine, that whole three episode and many series thing that they did,
that sucked too, back to earth. But then after that, it got good again. It was just that core crew
and doing what they were doing before just older. Really? Yeah. Either I missed season nine or it sucked so
bad that I blocked it out because I don't remember them on earth. I remember the the the come back of the
squid and the come back of the squid dance. That was back to earth. That was season nine. Yeah, that was
technically fucking awful. The only reason they did that was so that these fucking up in their own
ass ass hole fucking designers could publish the behind the scenes video and they were all assholes,
every one of them fucking sorry. That's explicit tag. No, season nine. Not sorry for my opinion. Sorry for
the explicit tag, the HBR. Oh, okay. Now season nine sucked entirely all three episodes. It was
garbage. It was horrible. But season 10 is actually worth watching as is 11 and 12. Really? Yeah.
I might get back to it then because shit at the first eight episode and first eight seasons were
fucking terrific. They were fantastic. First seven. First seven seasons were really good. What was
wrong with season eight? What was season eight then? Season eight was the one where they brought
the entire crew back to life and they said, yeah, yeah, yeah, I just said that. Sorry. Yes, you're right.
Well, okay, there was one good thing in season eight. What? The Canary's backer name was really
good. Well, I don't remember what the acronym was. I don't either. It was like car,
wait, cannibal, alien, something evil sheepshaggers at the end. It was funny at the end. It was
strange, but at the end, it was evil sheepshaggers. It was kind of paid off the joke. It was one good
joke. But yeah, overall the episodes were hot garbage in season eight and season nine. If I'm doing
like a playthrough, like, you know, just watching them all for a marathon, I will watch season eight,
but I will not watch season nine. It doesn't make sense to watch season eight though.
Well, I will watch it for continuity, but I will not watch season nine because it sucks.
Yeah, continuity can exist in my head. Well, I'm having to suffer through bad episodes. But
yeah, listen, I'll take your word for it. I'll check out season 10. No, okay, there was actually
something good in season eight. And that was the last part of the last episode, which references
back to the first season when he what twists the nipples of death. Go on. I'm not going to say
the credits were the best thing. The ending credits. No, no, right at the end. No, the starting credits
are better than the ending credits. Yeah, right at the end, everybody else has like jumped dimensions
away from the dying red dwarf. And then death shows up to take Rimmer and hold on. I'm watching it
right now. He kicks death in the nuts. I remember that actually, but the reference is in the first
season. It said if he comes near me, I'll rip his nipples off. That's when they were talking about
death. And that was actually Lister that said that it's either the most strained callback or the
worst paid off callback that I've ever heard. I'm not sure which I appreciate that you recognize
it. Don't get me wrong. And I'll have to check it out just for that. But they they should have
paid it off better than that. What was that season seven episode that won the awards or was it the
season six episode? I think it was season six. Let me let me go find it where they all gunmen of the
apocalypse. I don't know from names. What happened? Oh, that's the one where there's some computer
virus that they have to go destroy. The only thing is to be the cat. Pretty much. That was one. Yes,
that was. I think it was two episodes, maybe three. That was one of the best series of the series.
That was excellent. That was that was probably the only one in it watching at the second time.
That one beat the JFK episodes. Watching it the first time, the JFK episodes were the
fucking mind blowing. They were so good. Yeah. And Dave Lister saying, what was it? Activate
chastity cheat. I don't remember that particular joke. Oh, he went to what was it? King Arthur's
court or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, is that that episode? I don't think it was that episode.
No, one you're talking about was the one where the, the, the Delver. Oh, yeah,
remember what had done that for sure. Oh, ace. I thought it was the ace episode, but it's not
the ace episode. It's not the, there's multiple ace Rimmer episodes, though. There's two ace
Rimmer episodes. No, there's more than that. There has to be more than that. There's two. There's
the original ace Rimmer episode where he ends up jumping through all the different dimensions.
And meeting all the other Rimmers and never found one as smeggy as the red dwarfs Rimmer.
Right. And then there is the one where he comes back. And all the other Rimmers are dead. And he
dies and ace or the Rimmer becomes the new ace Rimmer. Yeah. And that's it. Those are the only
two episodes. Seriously? Can you think of another one? I guess not. I guess it's just all the
flashbacks in those two episodes. Yeah. Well, the second one, the one where he comes back and
dies, they spend a lot of time in the, in the very beginning of the episode following him around while
he's doing all the cool crap. And then at the end of the episode, they show all the different
like pods of the dead Rimmers. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, that's right. They make a constellation.
Such a good show, such good storytelling. Oh, yeah. If you can't tell by, you know, how much I
can recall of it, I must have watched it at least a couple of times. Yeah, me too, but I mean,
I'm not quite there with you. I'm probably two thirds of the way there with you. Everybody's dead,
Dave. Everybody is dead, Dave. Dave? Everybody dead is. Then what I mean is whole time.
That's PFC whoever, whoever. I can't remember. Descicated mouse turns.
Such a good show. Have you read the books? No, no, I haven't read the books. The books are actually
really good. As good? I'd say the first two of the four are, and then they kind of branch off a
little bit. There was some disagreement between the two writers. So they split the stories off in
their own directions. It's rather see the behind the scenes where the writers are arguing and then
get engaged together. Well, that's why it took them so long to, you know, bring episodes back was
because they had to resolve that. And I think one of them ended up dying before they could actually
do anything with it. Seriously, that's the only reason I didn't come back for so long was the two
writers didn't get along? Right. What selfish cunt? Pretty much. Oh, sorry, HBR adult tag.
Depends on which side of the ponger on. It's always me. All right, I'll be back. My dog is telling me
something. Yeah, me too. I need the restroom. Talk amongst yourselves. Well, y'all, I'm going to
drop off for a little bit. I'll come back after the new year. All right, I'm back. Anybody else here?
More than two. I just popped it. I was just saying that I was heading out for a
minute. I haven't trouble hearing anything. Drop off for a minute. I'll be back later. All right,
text later. Hey, more than see what's going on. There you go. Not much getting ready to show
to Patia. To where? Patia. What's that? Thailand. A district in Thailand. There's two
collie temples there. And the zoo has a moudang. If you've seen moudang.
I don't know what that is. Tell me what it is.
Moudang's the pig me hippo baby. Oh, okay. Everybody is moudang crazy over here.
All those memes that I keep seeing for the baby hippo. Yeah, I'm going to see the baby hippo.
Still moudang crazy? Where are you mordancy? Thailand. And where does that hippo live? I don't
even know that. Thailand. All right, makes sense. Joe, you start, I guess the... No, I'm spinning the
lock nuts on a set of weights. Do you not have push to talk? No, I have hot mute though. And how am I
supposed to use push to talk if I'm using big ass weights? Yes, you should have asked yourself that
before putting it on push to mute. So you're... Yeah, what happens if I want to talk to you guys while
I'm lifting weights? Maybe you'll have to wait for a polite moment to ask or talk or pee up. Look,
if I can't talk to you guys when I got 300 pounds in the air, who can I talk to? That's a good
point. But if you can't keep from rattling while other people are trying to understand each other
and you're adding noise to the signal. Are you body shaming me? Are you mad that I'm working out?
No, I'm not mad at all. No. Okay. Okay. Shaming may be not body shaming. There's a kind of shame here
that I'm... Give me a minute. Oh, you're audio shaming me. Yeah, I am maybe. Oh, I do that to be all
the time. They deserve it. Signal to noise ratio, shaming? Oh, no. If I deserve it, I deserve it.
Not audio generally, just specifically signal to noise ratio. Not you and also not you specifically,
you just happen to be the offender currently. The convenient example. Yeah, exactly. Hold on.
Better? No. No, worse. Could you close the hold on and listen to it?
Let me try this one. Oh, yeah, that one doesn't make any noise. Oh, for you, it's better.
It's so important so you were saying you're in Thailand. You got baby hippos. Yes.
Everybody asked me and the US to bring back Moodang stuff for them. So I got some pins,
ink pins and some plushy little keychain things. I'll probably get some more stuff
when we're actually at full zoom. I think this is our fourth or fifth attempt to go.
Just have me 3D print a whole bunch of them for you and you can tell them you got them from there.
You don't want, and they don't want. That works. They don't want your 3D printed jack. They want
authentic shit. They can sell it on eBay in 10 years. Well, he's going to lie and say that he got
them from there, that they're authentic. But the 3D printing shows through the lie. Not if you paint
them. And, and Joe, you know, I don't lie about stuff. Or I wouldn't admit that I that I'd eat
people. Yeah, we know you don't lie, but the people that give them to or the ones selling them on
eBay, no one knows that they don't lie. So today, you've got a hippopotamus for Christmas. Is that
is that what I heard? Only if you can sing it. We're going to go. We we're supposed to be there
on Christmas. And we can't in the my fiance's daughter canceled. So we're trying again tomorrow.
Ordincy. Yes, a hippopotamus. Ordincy, you've got to make him sing it. So what is the plural of
hippopotamus? Is it hippopotamus? Is hippopotamus? Hi hippopotamus. It's a weird one. It's completely
different. It's still got a hippopotamus. No, it's the plural. I don't think it is. Look it up.
It's not. How are you doing, Trey? I'm doing all right. It's it's been a fun evening. I've caught
up on some movies and got one of my clocks that I've been working on for a couple years, finally
up and on the shelf and running. I don't believe we've met that one right there. It's a 1913
Ingram kitchen clock. I don't believe we've met, Trey. I'm pleased to meet you. Pleasure meeting you.
I've recorded a handful of episodes on HPR one that one that aired today. Oh, one that aired
today. I have to confess I haven't actually listened or participated in HPR in a number of years.
So I missed out on your episode and I apologize. No worries at all. No worries at all. I
do said right there like you're pointing. Is there like a video stream somewhere that I'm not
aware of? Oh, yeah. I have the Jitsi server on another device. Ah, Joe just shared the link.
Thank you, Joe. Mighty kind of. It won't let me open it. It says it needs my mic and camera,
but it won't let me click okay anywhere. I have a clock that's in lots of pieces, Trey.
That's always a good place to start. Now just get them get them back together in the right order.
I'll clean them and see if it works or if it needs more help. Yeah, that's good advice.
This one came in pieces. It was a kit that my wife bought me. It's all made out of wood and it's
laser cut. So I have to break the the swarth, but what do you call it? The little connected.
I got to break all those and sand them down and then buff everything with wax and then assemble it.
That sounds like lots of fun. It really is, but I'm stuck at the big part
where you got to put a ton of shit together in one. It's like like a Lego diagram,
like you do this little thing, do this little thing, do this little thing. I did all the little
things and I'm at the step now where it's do seven huge things at once and I don't trust myself,
so I've been afraid to move to the not that I've been afraid to move them next step.
Just if I get to the next step, I don't have anywhere to put it away until I can hang it on the wall
and that's a problem. I can see that because it's a it's a pendulum clock made out of lightweight
wood like the lawn. So the pendulum's really long, but it's fun anyway. So how long have you been
doing clocks? So my grandfather was a clockmaker and I remember sitting and watching him in the
late 70s, early 80s, couldn't even talk to him. Couldn't ask him questions. It wasn't allowed to
speak if he was working on a clock, but it kind of planted a seed and then about, I don't know,
six or eight years ago, I found a a mantle clock in an antique shop that wasn't working and I thought,
it's cheap. I'll give it a try. See if I can if I can get it going and I got it going and then it's
it all cascaded from there. So if you if you can't see the video, there's probably
12 clocks in frame maybe or slightly out of frame. No, the video didn't open. What year was that
that you found the clock and started rebuilding it? Let's see, I'm guessing 2016. Yeah, 2016.
And late 70s, early 80s, is one you sat with your grandpa? Yes. A bit of a while. Do
this sorry, this might hurt. Do you have any of his pieces? I do not. I almost got hold of one of his
pieces a couple years ago when I was visiting with with my aunt, my dad's sister. She has a
grandfather clock that he made. But his her son didn't want to transport it from Pennsylvania to
Florida. And I wasn't in a position to transport it at that point in time. And then when their
state went to pieces, I have no idea what happened to it. Oh, what left the family? That's
really sad. I don't know that it left the family. I just know I don't have it and I don't know where
that's worth asking about. Yeah, it can be. I don't want I don't want there to be people going,
oh, he just he just wants the thing. No, no, no, that that's not real. I mean, maybe it's real,
but no, that's obviously not real for you, though. That's not what you're doing. You want to
piece your family. You should ask. If it's the only one you know about, you should ask.
Yeah, it's the only one I know that exists intact or that existed intact. I know one of my other
cousins had one and the movement quit working and she ripped the movement out and turned it into a
painted the painted the wooden case and turned it into a curio cabinet, which it looks really
beautiful, but it's it's not what it was. Oh my god. Number one, you don't rip the works out.
Number two, you don't fucking paint wood. Sorry, let me no explode there. No, I get it. I get it.
Oh, even I I'm a moron. Even I know you don't paint wood, but to pull the works out of a clock.
So right now, the problem is that there aren't a lot of people that that actually work on them anymore
and the people that do charge a premium and the price of clocks right now are really, really low.
So like that, that one clock I was just talking about, I got it for less than 20, but it was an
awful shape. I mean, I had to do a lot of work to it, but I got it less than 20 bucks at a flea market.
A normal clockmaker would charge probably three to five hundred dollars to take the movement apart
and clean it. And I had to put probably eight or ten bushings in it. So yeah, it would have cost
far more than it was worth to do that. If there's sentimental involved, sentimental value to it in
the family, then, you know, obviously there's there's a reason for that. But for a lot of people,
they just try to, you know, well, what can I do with it instead? Preserve history. I know I'll
put a quartz movement in it. And that's just that, yeah, that that hurts just. I need to go wash my
mouth out. It's soap just saying that. So, well, tomorrow, tomorrow, because I need to ask more
question. So you said ten bushings you replaced? One, two. Yeah, yeah, about ten bushings.
Were these commercially available bushings? Or did you have to buy a bar of brass stock
and turn them on your lathe? So fortunately, I was able to get somewhat preformed bushings.
So I was able to remount the existing bushing holes from a set that I have that I was able to buy.
I was able to find a bushing that had the outer diameter that was slightly larger than the whole that
I reamed in the plate. Okay. And then I was able to hammer that in and then
remount the inside of the bushing to the proper diameter for the pivot of the wheel.
What was the plate made of that you didn't mind damaging it? Press. It was all brass. All right,
all right. Okay. Wow. Nicely done. That's, you've, so you've got me interested now. I don't
know if you were here earlier when I mentioned that on Craigslist and somebody else said another
marketplace that like upright pianos are less than free. They're, they're, I'll pay you to take
it away. And it sounds like you're saying clocks with mechanical workings are almost at that level.
But I love machinery and brass machinery is like the like gold standard of machinery. What the hell?
Yeah, they're, they're brass and steel. Yeah. And a lot of times the interaction between the two
can cause issues. So like the tick tock of a clock, you normally hear from the pallets that are
interacting with a steel pallets that are interacting with a brass escape wheel. And it's letting me
say when you say steel pallets, you mean the teeth on the swingy bit, right? That the
banal controls exactly. I didn't know that tick they were called. The talk that you hear is when
the pallet hits a tooth of the escape wheel. And it'll stop the escape wheel because steel is 10
times harder than brass. The crazy thing, you would think that, but all of the ones that I've
worked on, the pallets actually have grooves that are worn into them from the escape wheel.
Oh, you know why? Why is that? I know why. I would love to learn why. Because there's only two teeth
on the pallet, but there's 60, 60, 30 or 120 on the escape wheel. So it's a multiplicative effect.
That that sounds fair. The other thing that I haven't seen. And there's more. I don't mean to interrupt.
There's more. And anywhere and tear that happens creates debris and the debris becomes trapped
between those two pieces. And it's going to wear into both of them equally except that there's
only two in the pallet and 30, 60 or 120 in the escape wheel. That could be fair. That I hadn't thought
of it that way. The other place where I see that same kind of wear is in older clocks like this
one that I was talking about where on a wheel, you have a large gear and a small gear, the large
wheel portion and the small pinion portion. And before they, when they were making less expensive
clocks that they didn't machine the pinion out of brass, they would make something called a lantern
pinion. So they would have a circle of brass and another circle of brass that were sandwiched
together with a gap in between. And they were on the the center arbor. And then they would drill
holes around through these circles to make a lantern effect and put steel spring steel into each one
of those in one of those holes. So it would look like a lantern or a cage if you were looking at it
from the side. It would be a cylinder effectively of rods that form that little pinion. So this is
the pinion steel wears before the brass of the wheel that interacts with it, which is really
interesting. I'm your description. My brain is not sufficient to follow your description.
It sounds like the early wooden gears where there's two discs and one has holes and one has pegs
and the pegs at the stick in the holes or am I a way off track? You're you're exactly right.
Oh, you're audio cut out? I think his audio cut out or I'm I'm Italian and I talk with my hands
and I lift it up my hand on the push to talk. You're you're you're exactly right. So you have the
the two circles that and the the material that goes in between them forms the teeth of the gear.
Sure. Oh, yeah. Trey, I would love to speak with you offline or at least or online but not
in a group at some point. Sounds great. If I can figure out how to message you that was wild.
Okay. If I can figure out how to message you directly, I will I'll give you some contact
information. Yeah, I'll work on the same thing at the same time. I bet I bet a a recorded call
between the two of you could be multiple HPRs. At least one. That would be fun. It really would.
I don't even care if we talk about clocks. I just I just find the way that you appreciate and
describe things is really really sorry getting off a cold. I find the way that you appreciate and
describe things is really really interesting to me. I'm getting a 404 on a web search for my own
stupid my no stupid me my own podcast. Not my podcast is stupid. Now which podcast do you do?
I you random. He does you ran. I don't do you random. I I spout shit on you random. The other
two guys do all the hard work. You random dash podcast.info and the other two guys are the smart guys.
I'm the dummy, but I like to talk with them and they tolerate me. Rise all lies. No,
it's okay. Need another podcast on my feed now. I'm not a liar. I wouldn't lie about that.
Who wait? I was on a wait a minute. Hold on. All right. Now I'm looking who just called me a liar?
More than sea. What would I lie about? I don't lie more than sea.
Imposter syndrome. You're lying to yourself. You're awesome and interesting.
Only to me and those two guys and now you. So there's four of us. Net minor. We can't hear you.
I don't know if you heard me. Net minor. We can't hear you. You were keyed up, but we couldn't hear
you. More than sea. I I'm not imposter syndrome. I don't do any of the work whatsoever. I show up
and I talk. Those guys do all the work. That's not imposter syndrome. That's me giving credit where
credits do. Those two guys do all the work. I'll be back in a little bit. I have to hop off real quick.
All right. Well, I have subscribed. Well, check it out. Trey, you got a pen and paper with you?
Yes, I do. Do you mind stepping into a different room? I'll give it to you audibly.
I can do that. Just have to figure out how to do that. Well, just pick a room. Click on one of
the rooms or the lobby is her lobby or click on dev random. I know I got access to that room.
No, I don't. I don't have access to dev random audio. Everybody should have access to
tilts. That should be open. All right. I'll go there. Yes. I must put my two bits in here.
The gentleman says the other people do the hard work. That doesn't mean that he doesn't provide
insight in flavor to the to the show. That can be seen by outsiders as valuable as the
show we say hardcore elements. As someone who's grown up with the internet and a lot of the systems
from deck and whatnot, I often provide flavor for people who know far more about Linux.
Since I was on the I was on the the arpanet and internet before it was open to the public.
Yeah. Well, we always enjoy it when you start talking about classic computing.
Well, I'm just saying the guy is downgrading himself, but he doesn't necessarily have to
provide the hardcore. He can provide the spice. Yeah. I am going to have to drop soon. I have to work
tomorrow. Hey, Starship Tux. Good evening. Is this thing working? It is. Sounds pretty good too.
I've got a little blue snowball ice. I haven't used in a couple of years. Tested it out.
Now the snowball is okay. The only problem with the snowball and I have one is that it picks up
everything and the little turn knob on it doesn't do a damn thing. This one's the ice. There's
not even a little turn knob or anything on it. So I shut off the the air purifier behind me
in the hockey game. Oh, who's playing tonight? Penguins are playing tonight. I missed it.
Watching the abs and the jets tonight. I missed the penguins game. Damn it. Was that tomorrow night?
Oh no. It's only the end of the second though. I screw in and turn on the hockey game.
Yeah. How's that like book Mars working out for your wife there?
She loves it. It works really well. I mean, thanks for that. It wasn't too difficult of a fix
and I know I talked about it on the shows several times. But yeah, I like being able to drag
and drop the books onto it. Because for some reason, I don't know if it's because I use the Linux
box, but it would not connect to data over USB, but it will charge and it stays connected now.
So yeah, it's a great little device. Yeah, I gave it up, but picked up. What is it?
A Onyx color seven or something like that? A little color e and greeter about the same size,
but has a couple of buttons.
Cool. Glad somebody's getting some use out of it.
Yeah, well, I'm glad I was able to fix it.
Yeah, my soldering skills leave a lot to be desired.
I ended up having to get out my hot air gun.
That may be my next purchase because I'd like to learn a little more about how to do that stuff.
I need a proper hot air station instead of just a hot air gun. It's on my list of things to
eventually get. Yeah, my latest project has just been soldering LED tape for cabinets.
That's cool. What's your soldering iron?
I've just been using the, shouldn't have had that beer. I can't think of it all of a sudden.
Yeah, just a little $20 one from the microboard people.
Okay, I really enjoy my pencil.
That's the one. It's a really good little soldering iron and it heats up quick
and if you use a larger tip, I wouldn't do it on really sick boards or anything with that particular
model, but it's still pretty good. Yeah, well, on the job by Mon, it's doing what it needs to do
and slating up a lot of cabinets. Working on a job that started out as a $2.5 million
model and is going to go five to six by the time it's done. That's horrible.
It's all TNM, so my company is doing well on it. That's really good then.
Yeah, not been fun when they don't, when they double the size of the job and don't give you
any more time. And we're back to horrible. Yes, but the least dealing with the owners they're nice,
but yeah, it's a little bit a little rough, but I'm on a little break over the last couple of
weeks at least. Yeah, weather break. They kind of kick everybody out of the town, all the construction
crews over the Christmas holidays. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, they want everybody to be able to
go in and go skiing and have places to park and stuff and be able to use their houses.
I don't know if you can hear my screwdriver. A little bit in the background, but not distracting.
Okay. Figure if I'm going to 3D print this stuff, I might as well put it together.
My 3D printer has been sitting idle lately. It can't. Got lots of stuff I can think of to print
no time to do it. Yeah, well, that's one of the fun things. When you ain't got time, you just
sent a long print to go and walk away. Only problem is it's in my bedroom. So it smells the
place up. So I only built me an exhaust system. Only if you're working with like ABS or something.
Yeah, the PLA still can. It's a sweet smell, but it still can be overpowering.
But I started out with a CR-10 several years ago and then tried to go to a
Creality CR-10 plus and that was a major failure.
I want a bamboo, but I don't want to pay for a bamboo. Yeah, mine's now the bamboo A1 with the
with the four color systems. But you're not using it? I just haven't had time to make the designs I
wanted too lately. Is that the one with the enclosure or is that the one that's open?
It's the open one, but it still has the AMS that allows you to do four color printing.
But I was asking about the enclosure because I know you can put a charcoal filter on those things.
Yeah, those are the, those ones are a little bit more expensive. I bought this one for
600, maybe like five, five, 60 on a initial deal.
That's cool. Yeah, it was about 10 minutes to put it together, let it do its initial setup for about
45 minutes and it's been printing beautifully ever since.
I'll come Pokey ran off. Oh, him and Tray are talking in a separate room in order to pass
some information that they don't want, you know, recorded contact information, things like that.
Okay, I was listening to the stream and then realized I was probably a minute behind and so I popped
in here. Who got the streamer still work? Kunky had his concerns.
Yeah, seemed to be still working good. I heard them heard Pokey talking and saying they were
going to jump over to the tells room. So yeah, tough time of year forming. I listened to a lot
of podcasts. So everybody is going back and listening to a couple of history podcasts that came
out five or six years ago and going through those. I know I'm all caught up on him. I'm listening
to one called history that doesn't suck and then Egyptian one on Egyptian history and pirate history.
Sounds cool. Now I used to listen to Dan Karlin's stuff. I liked his stuff. He had one specifically
on Lutheranism that I really enjoyed. I hadn't seen that one. I like the World War I one,
the blueprint for Armageddon. I listened to that one probably once a year. It's about 24 hours
worth of stuff. Yeah, he does put out long form content. Yeah, but if you got the right headphones
in the right place, he does hold your attention. Oh, yeah. Need to go back and listen to the
twilight of the ice or ones because they kind of came out more separated. Need to learn the Viking
history a little more. All right. Well, like I was saying, I got to get going. I got to work tomorrow
probably going to try and catch some of this hockey game. Maybe I'll jump back on in a bit
or in the morning when I wake up. All right. We'll have a good night and I'll stick around for a
little bit while I'm watching the game and see if anybody else pops in. All right. Talk to you
guys later. Good evening, Pokey. Good evening, sir. I was clicked off the screen giving a moment to
recognize who said that. I haven't talked to you in a long time. No, I know. I go a long time
between speaking to people. It's a character flaw. Yeah, more my fault. I haven't been on mumble
in a long, long time. I doubt that I have not been on HPR even longer. I kind of I'll put HPR on
for a couple of years and take it off for a little while and back and forth. So I'm kind of the
same way. Question, have you ever heard of the beta mine half effect processing processing? I would
like to say yes, but I think I would be dishonest if I did. So no, I have not heard of the beta
mine half effect. All right. So I mentioned it specifically because it happened to me with you on
you random. Yeah, get the right podcast here. So sometimes I get that one right too.
Yeah, I listen to the old one. We won't mention it. No, you can mention. I love that one.
Episode three puts me in stitches every time I listen to it. Of which, if you random?
Oh, no, the old random podcast. Then mention it. I mean, DeVrandom, you actually want me to
mention that podcast. I love DeVrandom. I missed DeVrandom. I wish I could find those episodes
posted somewhere. I don't even have personal copies of them. I just I do. I have everything
downloaded that I could get. How much money are they worth to you, sir? Considering I'm poor,
don't make it a real big number, but I would love to have them. Let me let me see here. I have
episodes one through 24 is what I have. I do not have the missing episodes. I don't know. That's
yeah, that's got to have. I don't know if there are missing episodes that didn't get published.
Wow, you have 24 episodes. I do. I have kept them for years and then on multiple backups.
You have 24 more episodes than I have. Well, my favorite is episode three and wondering if you
still dream of electric sheep. Bet your ass, I do. Is that I don't remember the name of the
episode. I don't remember how the name came to be. A little radio play you wrote involving several
people. Oh, yes, I know. Yeah, I was hoping you would say that. Oh, my God, I really wish I had
even the original files. I don't even have the original files that I tried uploading.
That was episode three. I was that creative that early? Holy shit.
That episode leaves me in tears laughing so hard every time I listen to it. Pizza Pizza.
Oh, my God. Thank you so much for saying that. Oh, my God. That is so funny to hear you. I had so
much fun putting that together. It took so long to put it together and I'm not sure if I ever
heard it. I know I must have heard it at least once, but I certainly don't have an episode of it
and and you know, Taj and Lyle, correct? I've been listening to you random since episode one,
yes. Neither of them has ever heard that. Yeah, let's see here. How do I,
can you jump into the tilts room again real quick? You there still?
There, it's in the chat. Anyone who's in the chat there, you know where it really am for real.
Just please don't share it with anyone. I know problem. I will just copy that. I will send you like
let me hit the button again. I'll upload it to my Google Drive and send you a link for all
those episodes if you want to download them and in the next few days here, I'll try to do that.
I'm not working for the next five days. I just let me know when they're there. I absolutely do
want to download them. I, wow, you are, you are, you're the man. You are so great. That is so
awesome. You are the internet archive personified. I think I have all the KPO's also.
Those were better. I was trying to like, I don't know about everybody else on you, on
DevRandom, but I was trying to live up to Colonel Panic August K, so long ago, dude.
Yeah, and it was, I was in a bad spot during those years. I was out of work for most of three
and a half years, so Saturday nights getting KPO or DevRandom was just keeping me alive sometimes.
When this is funny, when I first grew the balls to participate in Colonel Panic, I,
I'm pretty sure the first time I participated, the first time I, I can't call, I want to say
called in, dialed in, whatever, but it wasn't phones. It was internet. The first time I
interneted in to Colonel Panic, I'm pretty sure I did it on like headphones and a mic that were
plugged into an early, early, early Android phone over Wi-Fi and I did it in my backyard on sitting
on a swing on my children's swing set and was like out under the stars talking to all those
awesome, awesome dudes. Claudio Miranda was there. He was here earlier tonight too and so many other
people and sitting on the swing and just talking under the stars and I still have the swing set
and damn it, that's, that's gonna be a hard thing to let go of, that swing set that, that I sat
on and participated with Colonel Panic. Yeah, there were, there were times, you know, actually,
I listened to all those podcasts again and stuff as I was moving. I had an 18-hour drive and
just started going through all that stuff again and I'll, I'll still go back and I'd probably
listen to the KPO stuff a couple of times but the DevRandom stuff could probably go through
them all about once a year or so. Get out of here. No, the Colonel Panic stuff was so good.
Yeah, but I have a lot more episodes of that. Okay, yeah, all right, that's fair.
But anyway, the, the Bader Mindhoff thing back to that real quick. So my boss one morning is talking
about this motorcycle ride. He's gonna fly out and take, you know, and I learned long ago,
I have no business on a motorcycle so not my interest really, but he's talking about it.
Later that day, I'm listening to you, Random, and you're talking about riding the Dragon's Tale
Road and it was just that Bader Mindhoff is once you get, you hear something, you can't stop hearing
it all over the place. Yeah. So I ended up hearing that twice in the same day for the first time.
Really, that's pretty cool. Yeah, it was really odd and I, I listened to something about that
Bader Mindhoff. I guess it's Bader Mindhoff phenomenon just a few days before that. And then I
started hearing that all over the place. So it's one of those, one of those odd coincidences.
For the sake of anyone on audio who's not right here right now, the tale of the Dragon is the,
is what he's referring to. It's Route 129 or 128. I forget I think it's 128. No, 129. I think it's
129 from North Carolina to Tennessee. It's called the Tale of the Dragon. Not everybody says the
Dragon's Tale, but it's, what it's, if you want to Google it, it's the Tale of the Dragon.
Sorry, I did not meet you in a row. Oh, you didn't. So I just, interesting clarification.
So I just, I couldn't remember and spend a couple of years ago that you talked about that. So
as I was wondering, the, the you randoms and come out a little bit slower, is that just scheduling
or something like that? If by scheduling, do you mean intentional? No. If by scheduling, you mean
that the three of us have different calendars with all kinds of shit on it and there's not
as many openings that align. Yes, it's, we have a really hard time. Nowadays, me, I'm getting close
to 50. These other guys are getting close to their, you know, 40, 45 years old. It's just really
hard to find an opening in the calendar that we can record. Yeah, I get that. So just miss
someone. I don't get them at the beginning of the month. I got used to it. Yeah, we got used to
it too for, I don't know what we 40, 50 episodes in a row. Maybe that we were like the first of the
month and then all of a sudden it, maybe more, maybe 60 episodes and then they started getting
spread out. But no, we're still going. We've got one that just posted and I think we have one,
at least one, I think we have one in the backlog and then we're hoping to record one at the end of
January or mid-January. So we should have one in like early February. Nice. Just, I was listening
to the last one and I was like, wait a minute. I think this was a few months ago.
Yeah, they, they, we should start them that way. So the one that you listened to, the last one
that you heard, the last one that posted, was it just the three of us? I believe so, yeah.
Oh, you got a good one coming up. Who'd you pull in on that one? Are you willing to tell?
I am not willing to tell, but I am willing to claim that it might be one of our, if not our
best episode, it's in the top three. Did you get RMS again? And if it, I know I didn't.
Hold on, I'm laughing it off. Depending on who you ask, we either got the next best thing or
we talked RMS. Hairgrainment? Depending on who you ask. Who should I ask?
Oh, that, not Dan. Yeah, you can ask Dan. No, did you get Dan? No, ask Dan.
He shows up here tonight, I will. Which, which Dan? Double in Dan. Oh, yeah, definitely ask
Double in Dan. And whatever, whatever his opinion is, if he thinks it's better than RMS,
he's correct. If he thinks it's second best RMS, he's all to correct. Double in Dan is a reliable
source. All right, well, I will be waiting for it to come out or the next couple to come out.
He doesn't know, by the way, who it is, but his opinion is still valid.
On most things, I believe. On all things? What's he been wrong about? Besides Harachis.
I don't know, the beans for every meal might be wrong. You and his wife agree on that.
Everyone else thinks he's 100% and who has ever in the elevator that they've always referred to.
That's true. That's true. You're in, you still kind of in the northeast area of the country from
what I've gathered through the years. Not just kind of. I live in New Hampshire.
I have a couple of friends that, strangely enough, they live in this town. They ended up here
separately from Vermont. And every once in a while, I will give Vermont maple syrup from them.
And that is a special occasion. Yeah, yeah, real, it doesn't have to come for Vermont, by the way.
But real maple syrup from maple trees is a genuinely good, but where are you then that maple
syrup is that special? I am high in the Rockies. I'll put it that way without
giving away too much. And that's good work in a very affluent area. But I am not. You're not
area or you're not affluent. I am not affluent. I am trailer park trash. Oh, so you're
quite area. Yes. Yeah, me too. My doctor just put, my doctor just told me he'd like to see
a lot less of me. Yeah, I don't think I'm quite Bobby Josh trash, but maybe. The, um, yeah,
all right. So the only way I can describe maple syrup to people who have not had maple syrup,
my buddy and I went down south last year late, late, early, late sometime last year. We went
down south. We had breakfast. One of us ordered pan, I ordered something pancakes probably that
wanted syrup on it. And they came without anything on them. They just were pancakes with no
nothing. And I asked the waitress, can I have syrup? And she said, what kind of syrup do you want?
And before I could answer, she said, regular or king syrup. And I said, do you have maple syrup?
And she looked at me like I was a fucking alien. Yeah, well, I know what maple syrup is,
but I'm guessing nothing I can buy around here has real maple in it. Yeah. Well, regular
apparently is corn syrup. And I don't know what the what king syrup was. I was afraid to touch it.
Well, you can buy it on Amazon. I don't know what it is. Uh, yeah, no idea. And I don't think I
want to know. Cain syrup is the syrup produced by crushing sugar cane. No, sir. Not cane syrup.
K-A-N-E. King syrup. K-I-N-G. Ah, I wouldn't know what that is. Oh, could it be molasses?
I have no idea. I was afraid to touch it. I was afraid to try it. I ate those pancakes with butter
and nothing else. Yeah, well, I haven't heard of King syrup and my most reliable southern
connections have been cut long ago. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our syncs.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
