Episode: 4151
Title: HPR4151: HPR Community News for June 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4151/hpr4151.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:22:04

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4151 from Monday 1 July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, HPR Community News for June 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 81 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in June 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon.
You are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is the HPR Community News for June 2024.
Enjoying me this evening from Scotland is?
Hello Dave Morris is here.
And from an undisclosed location somewhere around Switzerland is Reito.
Excellent.
HPR is a community podcast produced by the community for the community.
You are, in fact, listening to this.
You are assumed to be the community.
If you would mind sending in the show to the community, that would be great.
If I had a Euro for every time I said the word community in the show, we would be able to go buy a few beers.
Anywho, this is the community news where we give you a background on what's been happening in and around the HPR Community for the last month.
And what is traditional? Dave will welcome the new hosts.
Yes, we have a new host, which is wonderful.
And it's a name I can say, MNW.
I think it's not a pronounced thing, but just a series of letters.
But yeah, we'll hear from MNW as we go on in the episode.
I was just thinking there now.
I know this month when you sent out the reminder on the mail list, which is the...
Everybody who is interested in the HPR and the background, please join the mailing list.
You have started to include the annual their business.
I'm wondering, should we do the annual their business first or should we go through the shows?
Well, it's not time-dependent in any sense.
It doesn't bounce off what we're going to be talking about in the show.
Doing it to start with would be fine, yeah.
And even move it in the in the future, if you wish.
We can let's continue to do it the way we normally do and elicit feedback from our listening public as to what they would like.
If people would like the annual their business straight away, then they, if they already listened to the shows, they might want to skip through.
The reason we started the community news in the first place was to make sure that every show got a piece of constructive feedback.
And it's usually very ranting feedback, more or less coming down to, I love the show.
Please send it more if we're being honest, but it's usually genuine.
It's actually always genuine.
So that was the purpose of that, but we also noticed that it's a, it's a good way to feedback to the community listening on the podcast.
You might not be listening and are following on the mail list or on many of the social media channels we have that what has been going on in or around the community.
Add a comment to this show or ping us up on the mail list or send us Twitter's or a mastodon to or whatever your favorite thing is.
Okay, let's do it.
The traditional style and we will go to HBR community news for May 2024, which was episode 4131.
And we must have been controversial, Dave, because there are seven comments.
Indeed, indeed.
Do you want to start?
No, people have heard enough of me, you start.
Okay, so the first comment was from Hobbs, HBR page design was the title.
It's inspired to contribute.
It contribute CSS or HTML code can submit merge quests on the honest hosted GITTY repo.
And there's a link to the repo.
Very good.
Thank you.
Can you guys do, as I'm going to be responding to both of these, if Rito, can you do 431 and then Dave Hendricks on?
I think we've lost Rito.
No, sorry.
I simply hit the wrong button.
Sorry, guys.
And if I saw nothing from kid silence for the fixed moment.
Oh, gosh.
Is it?
I am.
Yeah, maybe.
No, sorry.
Sorry about that.
Okay.
All right.
So comment from Vokey.
Give me the opus.
Ken was talking about planning an opus feed.
I would welcome this.
Please give a shout out on the mailing list or in a show so that I can switch to this feed.
By the way, the files in the op feed are without any metadata.
Oh, yes.
It's me.
It's me.
Comment three.
Henrik.
Henren says, thank you.
Thank you for this month's community news show.
Thank you very much.
And we created a...
I commented creating a bug for the metadata being missing, which we have since identified.
And we need to come up with a cleanup thing, but by the way.
Let's work required, which has been started.
Yeah.
It's not so easy to resolve, but anyway, we're working on it.
On the list, Eric quotes literally is on the list now.
Ken Fallon replies to HPR design.
This is to Hobbes's question.
HPR page design, setting expectations.
Feel free to pull the source and build your own, your proposal.
However, janitors working on get and not empowered to accept your pull request.
The reason is this.
Hacker public radio boat.
Hashtag autotalk governance.
Where I quote, HPR is entirely community driven policies are proposed and discussed on the mailing list, which are opened to anyone to join.
As with changing the intro and outro, any fundamental change to the design of the website needs to be presented and approved by the community.
Just a little bit more on that.
I'm doing the response show for the recent discussions about the future of HPR.
It's basically been consuming every three minutes I have.
The reason is taken so long is if somebody says, oh, but this, you know, HPR should do this or make a comment or check.
I have to go through and check, is that correct?
If it is correct, then how would we confirm that is correct?
If I feel it's correct or incorrect or whatever, is there a way that we can measure that statement?
Is there a way that we can check stuff?
This is why if you're following me on mastodon or on the HPR.
HPR metrics room, you'll see lots of strange questions like when did we realize the HPR shows?
If you're on the janitor's channel, you'll be seeing Dave, how do I run this query on the database and stuff like that?
Speaking of pace, it's taking form.
It's a very good thing that we're doing because to be honest with you, a lot of the questions that is brought up has asked, you know, it's basically shaving a yak type of thing.
And has really brought up to my attention what it is that's been asked and what it is HPR is.
But suffice to say more work on that is coming.
Particularly about the website design, if you have ideas for a visual website design, please send them in.
Yeah, but more on that and on.
Just to make sure you do not accept pull requests if they are specifically for the page design, but all other pull requests are welcome, I guess.
Whoops.
It all depends because it's to do with how we're run.
Some weird janitors that clues in the question where we do stuff.
If somebody has a typo on the website, right?
No problem.
That stuff we can change.
Fixing the org feed.
No problem.
That stuff we can change.
Integrating with all the systems.
Yeah, then you start getting into questions.
Is this where the community want to be in stuff?
So part of the response show is going to be a how to for the janitors as well.
When is it that we need to?
When does it cross that line?
Okay.
Yeah.
When do we sometimes just change you one word on the about page requires an in-depth discussion on the mailing list and sometimes delete and terabytes of data.
Nobody needs to be informed about it because we're just, you know, it's going to be presented the same and we're moving around in the back end.
So it's basically bugging me that I'm still not finished the show.
I'm I'm now really listening to the you random feedback for the second time after doing all the other shows and stuff.
But yeah, it's it's it's been good and will be good.
It will have to be done this month.
So there you go.
A lot of information you have to digest.
Shall I read the next one?
Please.
Okay.
The next comment is from El Musol about the opus feed.
He also I too would welcome this.
Okay.
And comment seven is from an HPR listener as if they're all not, but they were just.
The student Dave mentioned it's about and I happen to cause a noise occurred in the background which I thought people would hear.
I commented that it was the.
Was it an engaged tone or something from American telephone some way back?
Anyway, the comment says in this show Dave mentioned the alert sound on his phone.
It was actually on my phone, but never mind.
Which came after we followed from a particular song and mentioned the lyrics.
The telephone keeps ringing so I ripped it off the wall.
The song has, but those who may not be aware of other hacker links.
It's from the song much worse by the band.
Big audio dynamite, a band with interesting origins itself.
The song is actually a B side.
It's best known for being used as the intro tuned for the show off the hook on Radio Station WBAI in New York.
Which is itself run by Emmanuel Goldstein and others associated with the 2600 hacker quarterly magazine.
Whose history is also long and rich.
Emmanuel's name, of course, being a pen name with an obvious source to those who read.
So good stuff.
Okay, a lot of that.
There is. Yes.
There's many shows in there.
Yeah, though.
You would ain't got a bit of a speech.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Someday we will be able to take a month off Dave and we'll just get our voices.
Some AI will be able to produce our shows.
Yes, indeed.
Look forward to it.
Okay, the following day.
We had you random talks about the future of HPR and there were three comments.
Did I reply to any of them? No.
I'll do Katybury then.
Great conversation to some degree.
I the discussion has gotten away from the point.
Have an active place to engage with HPR over the past few months or so since the conversation started.
Is we had three to four podcasts mentioned the matrix room.
I haven't ever heard it existed before that.
I didn't read the photo apparently given that the channel has greater than 80 people in it already.
Let's put some more focus there and use it more.
Shall I make the next one?
Please do.
Common number two by Henrik Hemrin.
I am a member of a couple of matrix rooms, including HPR.
Matrix is a good place for talking.
I think the direction is that a person first knows about HPR and then join matrix room.
But my interpretation of the idea to use this court is the opposite direction.
Persons not knowing about HPR should learn and get interested in HPR thanks to learning about it on this court.
I have never to my knowledge used this court.
So I don't know how this court works or if the idea makes sense.
But this is my understanding of the discord such as Chen.
Good feedback.
I'll take that on board.
Yep, absolutely.
People who actually actively use discord are useful to have their feedback.
Comment 3, Katie Murray again who's talking about the great conversation.
Having used discord a fair bit, I don't know how well it would work as a discovery tool.
Like matrix, you need to join or be invited to a discord instance to have discussions there.
It serves the same purpose as matrix IRC and to some degree these comments.
Discoverability will be easier with platforms like Mastodon, Twitter, Facebook, Yuck,
and maybe YouTube where people find things via algorithms and discovery features
rather than having to know that something exists in the first place.
That said, if we want to market the show in quotes, the best thing anyone can do is actually recommend it to someone.
If everyone who hears Ken or Dave read this comment of the June community news, that's you.
We're to really recommend HPR to another person.
That would go a very long way to providing some new ears and new voices.
And for those of you who can't wait to hear the outcome of my feedback show, basically it's that comment.
So it's already done.
No way!
I have been up at four o'clock in the morning where you can go home.
With a stack of note pads beside my bed and my wife is sick with all day.
Puzzle books that we have in the toilet are the back that are covered in comments and notes and all sorts.
Really does it take you so much away?
Yeah, I'm really it's because if you say so, because the way I work is I hear something and I think,
I'm on that can't be right.
And I can't put my finger on why it's wrong.
And then I go hyper into okay, I have to prove that that's wrong, but that's not constructive either because
it's no point being as my father used to say about driving when we were learning to drive.
There's no point being correct if you end up in the grave.
So our focus is not on being whether something was right or wrong, the perception is something is wrong.
So what is it that is what is it that we're doing wrong or that people are struggling with or how can we do that?
I usually get these insights after maybe fall asleep for an hour and then I'm wide awake going,
Oh, that's it.
And then the choice is do I go downstairs and spend two hours typing or do I write a note to myself and then hopefully go back to bed.
Well, I simply heard on another podcast about the HPR.
And yeah, because HPR itself, the word, the public radio does not actually make a connection to a podcast channel, Percy.
No, it doesn't.
And that's a valid point or so.
But now that you mentioned it, if people to this show commenting, however you choose to comment,
we're listening to all the social medias.
How a quick one liner, I heard about HPR blah, blah, blah.
And guaranteed I will be asking you to record a show about that.
But most important thing now is it will be very useful to know how people, particularly the hosts, got into HPR.
Because fun spoiler, our outreach is actually, it's not about exposing HPR.
Well, I'll do just comments into the show about how you became involved enough to be typing in your answer.
Should we carry on?
Sure.
Oh yeah, I'm mastered on one tip.
I will happily tell you.
I have never, most of the feedback from the new year round, let me show them happy with it.
I have never ever said try to lower the power of audio quality.
Absolutely never.
I have said that if there's no other way, send us in the audio quality, but always try to do the best audio quality.
That's what we mean about.
Flack is best.
We accept the risk.
Aim for as good as you can, but don't send it in.
But I'll tell you one thing.
And I can't prove this, of course, because I don't know how many audio files there are out there.
But audio files do not send in shows to HPR.
Lyle is a statistical anomaly in that fact.
So that's the only negative thing I could come up with for the you round them show.
And I'm scheduled to go and talk to them at some point as well.
Okay, next one.
Mastered on as a way to comment on HPR episodes.
Our newest janitor, Norris discusses commenting on the HPR.
Mastered on bot post.
And there are, of course, four comments on this one as well.
If you guys could do the other ones, I'll do my own.
Okay, I'll start then.
Henry Camryn says comment by a phone and laptop stroke desktop.
I mostly listen to HBO with antenna pod on my phone.
I mostly comment on my laptop or desktop.
I'm almost daily on Mastered on from my laptop desktop.
I just like to write and read on phone.
I prefer a real keyboard and big screen.
However, this particular comment I listen on antenna pod on phone.
In antenna pod, I click on open web page.
Firefox starts and opens the page for this episode and I type.
I don't think it would be much easier to give it on Mastered on.
Having said that, each person has tools and ways of working
and I agree Mastered on is good to tell about and promote HPR or specific episodes.
I don't mind if comments on web page and Mastered on will sink,
but longer comments will be truncated on Mastered on.
Okay, so comment number two from full stop slash.
Mastered on comments.
I absolutely love this idea.
Mastered on is a way people naturally have conversation about the topic anyway.
And it would be a pretty neat option in my opinion.
All the options for Mastered on clients out there make it an easy platform for me
to get updates in whatever form I like.
This would be super cool.
Next comment by Ken Fowl.
Okay, I reply high-nourished.
By the way, full stop slash.
I'll be responding to your comment in the feedback episode.
And you might be surprised of what I'm going to say as a result of that tune in for Ken's exciting episode.
Ken Fowl and some issues high-nourished, great idea and I like the solution,
which was...
Which...
Who wrote this?
High-nourished, great idea.
I like the solution, but as with most things on HPR,
it's really a technological quick fix.
First things.
How will Spam be managed?
This needs to be rock solid as we get hammered constantly.
Some instance, then I go.
Some Mastered on instances do not appreciate people taking their posts and putting them on other platforms.
How do we know that they approve and how do we track that the consent has not changed over time?
Next one.
How do we incorporate the feedback with the show so that the entire context is maintained
so that we can check them into gate or add them into our database?
How do we remove them if we're required to do so?
Can we include them on the Creative Commons and the Community News Show, this one?
And that violates the Creative Commons license,
which moderation rules will apply.
So, HPRs are Mastered on.
Mastered on instance A, Mastered on instance B, blah, blah, blah.
How will it stand up to attacks?
Which character sets are compatible?
And I'm not saying it's anything it's can't be done, but there is a lot to consider.
And then I link to a David Revoys article where I may have found an alternative solution to my blogs and common system shows.
And the reason I put that in there is because they have a, that's the Casper and Carrots stuff open source.
Creative Commons, very similar project in many ways to hacker public radio in that we're not traditional.
It's the medium that people are interested in, not the website necessarily.
So, okay, good.
Should I do the last one from just 72?
Can you, Ken's comment please, it's entitled.
I agree with the concept of using Mastered on in theory.
Ken brings up good points.
We as a community can still use Mastered on to boost our favourite shows past and present.
I also use Antennapod and the comment page is very easy to access.
I think that highlighting past shows every so often would bring up the variety of shows one can record.
Interesting.
Yep.
Yep, good point actually.
And on that, just on the feedback there to Norrist, you, that Mastered on integration will be happening.
That's just a given.
A lot of these foreign in the morning apps, foreign in the morning notes have come up with solutions to this.
So, I think we're good to go.
Also, people are maybe now aware that via Antennapod it is quite easy to leave a comment.
And they're going to use that.
Yeah, and I've also noticed myself that under older shows it's really as a pain and they asked to enter in the host ID.
So, I will now, through the magic of Truncate Silence, create a bug report.
No, I won't actually.
We can continue on.
But Dave, if you can make an order, I was thinking on the other.
Okay, one tactic Spamers use a lot is they go back to older episodes and they put in a great comment.
Particularly one, particularly episodes that have already a lot of comments on them.
And they will first, like dip their toe in the water and put in a comment.
And you go, this sounds a bit suspicious.
And basically they're checking out what our defenses are.
So, we have tools in place to track that sort of thing.
And so, therefore, on the older shows we have three additional things that need to be filled in.
One is, are you a spammer, yes or no, defaulting to yes.
So, you need to change that.
The second one is you need to say which host did the show.
And we ran into technical issues with that.
But what I want to do is make that a drop down again and put in three random people and then the name of the host that submitted the show.
And then the other one is you need to physically type in a message to the janitors explaining why you are part of the Hitchcock community.
So, good luck with that.
Yes, okay, bug report Julie, you noted.
Thank you, thank you.
I may, I think I'm waffling on here too much water.
We will continue on with the next episode.
Yeah, this one was a Nabitri for Craig Naloni, who passed away and he was the host of the open metal cast.
And I was, I knew him through our work on the free culture podcast thing.
It was great as events and stuff to be handing out a leaflet where all creative comes open source podcast and any metalheads that were going around, you were going, hey, here's a,
do you want to list a free metal and, you know, drag them in and met them aware that there was podcasts out there and stuff, but also realized how many other projects he'd been part of and I just felt it's fitting that we record a show.
And turns out he also had been interacting with Ahuka as well, who was kind of love to send in a segment.
And yes, thanks to Ahuka and everybody for their contributions on that show.
And the following day we had mining the web by Cedric and this was an episode about about using let's encrypt database as a location to be able to identify random servers on the internet and then scan those servers.
So the idea the problem he was running into was he didn't all the servers that were available on the internet, you know, which ones were new and recent.
And of course, the let's encrypt database allows you to register your certificate and your certificate has to be renewed every 90 days.
So you know that these are a list of active web servers drastically reducing the pool of servers that you can investigate in your ethical hacking are not ethical hacking statistical analysis.
So what do you think of this show guys?
I was very impressed by the 300 million log entries he caught there and tried to get them managed somehow.
Yeah, yeah, it was a very, very, very technical thing. It sort of passed me by a bit, but I did get the gist of it that he was actually running multiple Docker instances which were doing parallel searches and that type of stuff.
Yeah, the business of where he got the data from sort of passed me by a little bit, I have to say, because I hadn't I've come from the days when you could do a sort of domain download from DNS.
Of course, that was a ridiculous state of affairs that you could do that, but I tend not to think much of this sort of stuff, because we always used to do it to manage our network DNS work and stuff.
But yeah, it's an excellent way of solving this particular problem and from both ends the data source and the crunching of it.
I found a little bit scary actually that that was an approach that you could take and get access to those all those remains.
It's a little bit, because my domains are in their, our domains are in their HP or is in there.
Yeah, very interesting.
Yeah, but yeah, it, well, like I say, the old, what was it called that we could download the whole domain off a DNS sort of a, that was a door that was shut quite some number of years ago for the reasons it was not very safe.
I was wondering why he went on the road of doing the Docker containers and not running something like Parallels, Parallel or whatever.
Yeah, follow-up show might be an order.
Yes, I don't know enough about Docker to know how simple that is. Maybe it is quite simply, you could just create a bunch of relatively simple things and then run them in multiple containers and they were, they will not tread on one another's toes and stuff.
This could make in that, writing that as a standalone thing can be, can be a bit of an issue.
But yeah, but yeah, I'd like to know more.
Do you want to do, you want to do Norris feedback?
Yeah, sure.
So the comment by Norris, clever use of transparency data.
Using the transparency locks is a clever way to get a list of active domains.
Let's encrypt search, expire every 90 days so the domains are more likely to be active.
I don't have any suggestion for managing the data, but it sounds like a solvable problem.
Can you post more about how you are parsing the transparency locks?
You see what he's doing there, Chandler is waiting.
I'll do the next one, Charlie. Henry Cameron says, amazing project.
What an amazing hacker project I'm impressed and nice to learn about.
So the next day we have Pi Samba share.
So there's a series already?
No, we haven't quite managed to get coordinated enough to get to do that yet.
Yeah.
The Pi, so this is Kevin who's basically got a lot of pies and people are wondering what should I do with my Pi.
And he's given us episodes on how to do this.
And this is a fantastic little episode on just creating a Samba share for your local house.
Something I have done myself.
And Archer 72 says, I use this to great episode.
I've been using Pi Samba share using the Pi to rip DVDs and blu-rays for a few years now.
I'm not sure if there's a show on this, but the newer Pi 3's an op can be set to only use the SSD card to boot and then run a small USB thumb drive for stability.
So that's kind of cool.
One thing in that episode was that I'm a server you don't need to be logged in.
It'll just, it'll run on the background.
So you don't actually need to be logged in in order to do this.
So that was that.
Shall we move on?
Yeah.
So I used RISE UB or a REI SUB key sequence to reboot my frozen Linux computer by Henrik Herman.
This is the one with the reboot.
I sometimes face the situation where they say it says like a service is still running.
You have to wait one minute and 30 seconds.
And that's the moment when I take the same comment.
But at the end with another letter, which does not reboot, but the shutdown.
Ah, nice episode there.
Okay, I had to think a little bit.
Yeah, I do know the scenario you're talking about, but you have never, I've never actually done that.
And I just put more or less pull the plug on the, on the damn thing, which is not entirely a good thing for disks.
No, we can catch you later on.
And I, the thing about it is it's not enabled an all system or all distros, or at least wasn't.
And some of my keyboards don't have a pin screen on it.
So it's our system RRQ.
Yeah, same here, same here.
That was my, it couldn't be my RRQ.
My laptop's this game.
Yeah, well, are you sure?
I've got a fancy keyboard, which didn't come with it.
No, I can't find it.
It will be a key sequence presumably, but, or something you can program.
Yeah, it's something that you can set up and you can enable us.
But the very narrow second that you need is.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, you don't do it.
And then your system restores and you go, oh, fine, I won't do that until the next time that you need us, of course.
No, it's just fine.
I'd never, I'd never come across with this before.
So it was, it was really, really good to, to be told about it.
You just need to repeat it every day before you go to bed and by next time you need it, you know it.
Yeah, well, the good is a, as he, as Henry requests.
If somebody knows what each of the letters does and there was a question, I'm master done.
Oh, I'm obligated.
What is the you in REIS you be doing in more detail and is it needed?
I got a question from master done about the need for you in their rise up.
Is it really needed and if so, why in more detail?
I cannot answer.
Maybe you can explain the listener for reference and he gives a link to the masterful link.
So that's a good show.
If you know how to do this and we're afraid of dipping your tools into the, into the fame and fortune that HPR provides.
Then that's good kickoff show or reckon.
Absolutely.
Next day, Linux gaming, Fract tearo.
Has anyone heard about this?
Never, never heard of it.
No, no.
No, I'm not a gamer too.
We really need a gamer to step up and join this.
Fract tearo is a construction and management simulation game published by the Czech studio will be suffered.
Gamers announced via indigo go krunk running campaign in 2013 and release windows back and Linux on 14th of august 2020.
And it looks.
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
I didn't know it's on steam, but then there's going to be most things out of these things.
Alrighty, the following day.
Just odd listening to this and on mid summer's day as I did.
Was the HPR new usual for 2023, 2024 is the first of eight episodes that's coming.
First of eight episodes and fantastic links.
Thanks again to honky and I think.
The internet also did a lot of the show notes.
The links are absolutely excellent and worth a listen.
So I listened to the episodes and then went back and opened all the links.
They're really, really cool.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In processing it, I was looking at them just sort of double checking them, not everyone in detail.
But yeah, some there's some there's amazing sources of information there.
So yeah, congratulations for that.
So no comments on that probably because people have them in their queue going.
Oh, I'm going to have a nice long drive on my.
Come to the occasion that I got I play back to back hitch for a new year show.
I had to think about.
I had to think about you, Ken, where who is going on a while?
I'd speed to or how I are you.
To listen to listen to it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, two speeds, okay.
Yeah, and a nice, a nice road trip across the states or up to Sweden or somewhere.
Yes, that's nice.
Yeah, yeah.
You can't be quiet in the back.
I'll turn on.
Episode two.
Yeah, it's really hard to fit it in these these lengths shows in in my week just at the moment.
Because I've had quite busy week.
So I've not I've not listened to either of the use of shows, but try and rectify that for next month.
No, no worries.
It's just traditional at the state.
So battery charging and technology 2024.
This obviously was a AV battery thing.
Interesting developments of batteries and charging from Kevin.
From who could even.
Kevin says a good balance and informative talk.
I thoroughly enjoyed this episode.
It was both informative and taken from a neutral point of view without the political spin that we were used to hearing when it comes to electrical cars.
Whilst there are many reasons for us to adopt these.
The technology is still in the early days and the infrastructure.
And especially those of us who live early, simply nonexistent at the present time.
I totally agree with you.
The government still has a huge role to play in electric vehicles.
Are if electric vehicles are to become the new norm.
Henry.
Henry says batteries and hydrogen gas.
Thanks for this review of car batteries and charging status and development.
Over here.
Sweden.
Charging stations.
Number of them.
Country coverage.
Payment options, etc.
Big topics also here.
If.
When.
I would buy a car.
These.
Those questions are really interesting.
Actually I'm also interested in hydrogen gas cars.
Combustion.
Hydrogen converted for electrical.
I know it's a big efficiency loss when producing hydrogen from electricity.
We do not have the infrastructure at all here.
Far, far behind battery charging stations.
But I keep an eye on the progress.
Another big topic for all new cars is the surveillance.
Yes.
Yeah, the new electric cars with their computers inside surveillance is really a topic.
I mean, not just there.
It started long before and you have it in the gas burning cars as well.
So.
Yeah.
I have a very old car, so I'm not concerned about that.
But it is a controversial topic.
I mean, it depends from where you come from.
And well, I was talking to a couple of comments while listening to it.
Just never found it to the internet.
Okay.
And Kevin did another show called Pike Aid console, where he talked about his experience doing a Pike Aid console, which is basically an old retro type console.
It's like a little box like a sandwich box and it's got a controller and stuff and that's kind of cool.
Yeah.
It was interesting.
Listen to him.
And what I also like that he did some comparison and thoughts about it.
Is it the only solution?
And what else is there?
And I had to look at the picture when he was describing it.
How we how we put everything together.
Yeah.
I've seen them advertise and never really paid them great attention.
They look quite nicely built.
But yeah, it was interesting to hear Kevin's experience.
The fact that there's quite a lot of MDF used in the construction was a bit disappointing.
I got that message.
It's something that you don't really want to use and then reuse very much because it falls apart very easily.
Which he was saying.
Good overview.
This is a small piece of wood put together with glue, right?
Yeah, it's made from fine saw dust type material and then glued and compressed.
So it's as a board, it's relatively strong and you can use it for cabinets and that type of thing.
But if you're going to make something smaller and you expect him to screw into it and then take the screws out and put them back in again.
And by the time it's going to break down very quickly because it's not really, it doesn't have that strength.
Which is wise.
You know, IKEA doesn't do things that way.
They don't screw stuff together.
They put holes in them and then put bolts through the holes with metal things at the back.
Yeah, otherwise you would take plywood, I guess.
I think they're actually a stock of mostly plywood rather than a void MDF.
They have chipboard, which is just stuff up from the same problem.
Okay, the following day we had shared cell history with a twin.
And this is a magical shell of utility.
It's awesome.
I love that day.
It's the reference to the reference to Tory purchase.
It's coming through this.
It's a shell.
I would love to use this because I live in the shell and I do like the idea of sinking my stuff around.
But running a postgres database, I don't know if I could live with myself for that.
I was surprised that that was a necessity.
Yeah, I was expecting to, because it starts up with talking about there being a SQLite database,
which I assume is where the history is being captured locally.
And then it wasn't quite clear how the sort of centralized server-
The server solution worked.
But presumably it's being uploaded periodically to the postgres database.
Well, you kind of wouldn't need that if you had two machines.
So the idea you're for people who didn't listen to the shores.
This is a utility basically bash history on steroids.
You know, the oparo key and the controller typing stuff a lot more detailed than that.
And it saves your bash stuff to a database locally that you can interact with in the shell.
But also it allows you to put it to a central database either on the internet or on your own local NAS that you run yourself.
So that, you know, you're locked up and your desktop can share their history across each.
In which case, SQLite probably wouldn't work because you have no concurrency issues.
Exactly. Thanks.
Kill you wouldn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can you do that?
The shell history on steroids I have for quite a while with another tool.
Then lately I tried out FCF said F.
And now this one has the special feature here is this shared database in in the middle of it.
So yeah, another.
Let me read the one and only comment from Henry Cameron.
Good presentation of the to me unknown.
Oh gosh.
At you him.
You described the installation process and gave suggestions for setting in for settings in or doing very well.
I'm not familiar with this software.
And for the moment, I think it will not benefit.
I will not benefit of it.
But now I know it exists.
And I can go back to this episode whenever I get curious to try it.
Thanks for your good presentation of chewing.
And that's pretty much half of the HBO episodes.
I eventually come back and go, where did I hear that?
We didn't say that this is our new host, did we?
I didn't catch that.
No, this is the show from our new host.
Oh, MNW.
MNW, yes.
So yeah, and it was really well done.
I thought it was an excellent, excellent show.
Yes, it was.
I had this on my list.
I tend to watch YouTube, things where people say, oh, if you're a shell user, you should try this.
And I've got a long list of things that people are suggesting.
It's about number two on the list that I haven't gone to.
But yeah, it does look like a lot of fun.
I think I will be using it at some stage.
There is something called shame war.
This is about your home directory somehow.
One thing, but I keep this tab open for four years or more and never.
I have 120 tabs open or something like that.
But, you know, even your Olias, you have to copy from to each device, right?
So, and this would just be one more thing to do somehow.
Yeah.
Okay, shall we move on?
Yes.
Learning to touch type using the Devora keyboard layout and the stuff.
Wait, let me ask you guys first.
Sure.
Who of you does touch type?
Nope.
Nope.
Not me.
Okay.
I do.
Okay.
Let's continue.
Actually, and he didn't either.
He did hunting peck and he does a lot of journalistic work.
Or, you know, right, technical writing.
So, this was basically the summary of the episode was that he was going to use a
Quarty keyboard, but use it with Devorex so that he couldn't cheat by looking at the keys.
So, he's already back up to speed.
Yeah.
So.
Yes, as he tells, but he was really diligent.
Wasn't he?
He said something like one hour and evening, he was doing some practice.
Yeah.
Would you have to do that?
Well, I started around 2014 or 2013 with Neo2.
This is for the German keyboard layout or German wording, but no.
German.
How we write in German?
Yeah.
And I had on and off and on and off.
And since about 21, 22, I'm getting better and better at it.
But my problem was I was touch typing 20 years on what we have Quarts.
And to get over from Quarts to something totally different.
This is sometimes that I even cannot type both for some time.
I got in the mixture.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
But it is fun to go through that.
Also to realize how your body would react and how your muscle memory, how all these things
play together.
And I mean, it's a good training for your brain anyway.
Yes.
Exactly.
I've tried to learn most code or I was before my life got upset with some personal stuff.
And oh man, the hours you need to put in in order to get it, it's also nuts.
But I'll put some free time again.
I'll try and get back to learning.
Yeah.
I thought it was a very impressive episode, but the idea and the fact that he'd actually done what he's talking about
and had was achieving what he wanted to achieve.
It was very, very impressive.
It showed somebody with some tremendous motivation, I think, to achieve that.
Yeah.
And there was a comment by NNW, our new host, typing tutor websites.
Hello.
I really enjoyed this episode very much.
I absolutely adore Keyboard KYBR.
And was pleased to hear it mentioned.
If you get bored or if you just want a decent typing game, might I suggest at the website ZTY.BE.
ZuluTangoYankee does Papa Echo.
You are a small ship and there are larger ships flying towards you, with words or letters under them.
As you type the words, you shoot down the enemy and once you spell the word, they are destroyed.
But to keep it from being too easy, you must finish the word.
You start before moving to another.
I got many levels and a wonderful soundtrack.
It's got many levels and a wonderful soundtrack.
Good look on hitting 90.
I may give Dvorak a go.
Gamification, good idea.
Absolutely.
Cool.
So, 41.44 was running a self-hosted mail server with mail cow and I read mail.
And this was from Lee.
Who's going to do the Windigo comment?
I will read it.
The forbidden service.
Kudos on running your own mail server.
I often hear hardened server admins shying away from mail.
And I'm glad to hear that people are still giving it a go.
While mail servers do have the potential for abuse and headache,
I think your approach of using a mail suite like I read mail or mail cow
and hosting a non-essential domain are a great way to go about it.
Thanks for the informative episode.
Yes, I might actually...
That was my exact thoughts on hearing this episode.
Smart approach as it was not this main box.
And let's face it, we all have domains like the chick.
Oh, have a few beers.
Go on to the register domain, you know yourself.
It's only a euro.
Never done it, never done it.
I don't have one to be honest.
You don't have to make it.
No, I was too cheap until now because I guess it was more something like
I would like to have but I don't really need it.
Yeah, exactly.
I went to bought loads and then the following year you go,
it's like, oh, I was supposed to do something like that.
But I don't want to give up the domain name because it's...
If you get rid of it, somebody's going to take it and hijacking
then you're going to have to pay for it to get it back.
So yeah.
Anyway, the review of the RIW box TX8,
which is a set of headphones and a link to the Amazon thing.
I wasn't interested in review.
I looked at the link quickly to get a picture about what it was.
I had some play, I had some somewhere in his podcast.
He mentioned he could enter or he could put in an SD card to play music from it
and then it was really puzzled.
Oh, that's kind of cool.
I missed that, to be honest.
It was, they looked like interesting Bluetooth headphones.
I didn't look them up as well.
Yeah, it was on Amazon.
It says TF card module.
So it's probably got a player on it.
Really weird.
Okay, fair enough.
You put your songs on there and just play it without having...
Why not?
I think those are really attached.
No, no, no, no.
The Bluetooth headphone idea is fun, I like that.
Can I do the comment?
Yeah, please do.
Who mentions this RUBOX TX8 high-swift?
I liked your description so much.
I ordered a pair from Amazon and now here.
Of course, because I'm blind, I can't read the instructions.
I wonder if you could describe the four buttons from top to bottom,
which side they're on right or left ear.
And how to pair the phones and how to answer calls.
The phones feel very nice on.
Thanks for the timely review.
And the...
So my...
The right one, the right hand one.
The top button closest to the top of your head is the power on button.
The two in the center, the top one is the plus, which I presume is volume up.
The one underneath that is the minus.
And then the very bottom, I can't really see what it is.
It's got a name or a knee on it.
Menu, probably.
It's like that.
It's like a hamburger menu.
I did go looking for the manual in case it was out there on some side,
but I didn't find it.
No, it doesn't, it doesn't say what it is.
I think it's probably the settings menu.
Okay, cool.
Next.
There's a Pi5, some initial thoughts after playing around with the Pi5 for a couple of months.
Kevin gives his feedback, also gives some things to the stuff that he used to buy it.
And...
Yeah, I must say I agree in principle.
My personal feeling is similar.
Pi5 is nice, but whether you need it above the Pi4 is a question.
Yeah, it was...
While he was just chatting away about it, I was like, why don't you go for...
Like a Y-spoke, like a W-Y-S-E from Dell, or they were once in Dell.
You know, these thin client thingies.
They got quite, how do you say?
Attractive in the time when there were no Pi's deliverable anymore.
And I follow your episode, Ken, on the home assistance, of course.
And my home assistance started on the Pi3.
And I moved it now over to an old Intel Nuke from 2013.
But with 8GB of RAM.
And so I was thinking about that while he was talking.
And I really loved it that in the end he, again, similar to what he did with the box.
He opened his mind and came around with some ideas.
Is it worth to go for a Pi5?
Yeah.
Or not, it depends what you need.
And I have to admit today, if you're not looking to get these 40 pin headers
to make anything with these 40 pin headers.
But you need a little bit of RAM and you need a little bit of hard disk.
You're much better away with a nice thin client.
But you have to get your head around what is a nice thin client.
A used nice thin client.
Yeah, I was thinking about that as well, having a thin client.
And I think I mentioned in that episode I didn't particularly recommend it either.
Because I'm looking at some of those N100 boxes, which if anyone has one of those
or experience it, one of those, can you please send in the show?
I'd love to hear your thoughts and feelings about it doing it in a similar style to this show from Debbie.
And I talking about feedback in the community news or not the community news, but the new year show.
I thought it was also interesting because in one of them, one of the eight hours, the eight sessions.
Some guy in the internet mentioned that he steers away from pies.
The question about Raspberry Pi 5 also came up.
And he steers away from them because by the time you bought the case and the non standard power supply.
And your hard disk and it's flaky and it's a non until tough form, etc, etc, etc.
So yeah, I'm looking basically I was thinking as well for myself having a,
do I get Raspberry Pi 5 for some stuff here at home?
I want to kind of replace a NAS, have them maybe two turbid disks mirrored or possibly more.
Yeah, some questions, questions.
Yeah, I watched a YouTube video yesterday, actually, a guy doing a review of the N100 box B-Link.
I think was the name.
No, it didn't sound to me to be great.
Yeah, that's just the pie.
And he was, yeah, he said pretty much what's already been said here that unless you want the GPIO,
then you'd be far better off to get the Intel based system.
Comes with more RAM and it's got slots for a slot, I think, for NVMe.
And it's also in a nice case and it's got, it's cool, etc.
And he got it for about 165.
Oh, I'm not sure actually what it was 165 something.
So it was this guy in South Africa.
Yeah, I'll send it.
In fact, should I post it as a comment?
Yeah, I think so, the world can check it out.
But the thing is as you, I would stress it's a much on an Intel architecture.
So the X86, I would stress it more that you get the housing, you get the power.
Yeah, yeah.
And if you look a little bit for it, I would go for it.
You're now talking with the N100 about to buy a new one, but you can get on the eBay
or wherever your preferred stories.
You can find some used one, some used fin clients, you just have to check out the process
or how much you really need.
And some of those processors and also the whole box actually, they told in a German magazine
where they do some serious measurements or something like that.
And then they go down to three watts or something like that.
So you are basically on average with them.
That's a factor.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But that's an important factor isn't it?
Because some cheap small machines have been quite heavy on power.
But that's no longer the case, I think.
I remember Dave, I was a bit surprised actually when I got these 10 clients.
Because we wanted to replace our shared HPR Raspberry Pi with the 10 client.
And it turned out not to be as fast or powerful as the Raspberry Pi 4 on a lot of the benchmarks.
So yeah, there's thoughts.
That whole area could do it, could do it.
Other people chiming in with opinions.
Okay, review of the Moto G5G 2020 Swift 110.
Basically a Motorola phone, which caused a lot of comments on Mastodon.
And they're all lost because we have them set up the Mastodon link here to the comments.
So tough.
Yeah, that's kind of it.
You know, as well about the discussion skies.
Was it was it was it about the RAM?
Oh, they're just going to have to check on there because I don't know what the licenses of any of that discussions.
And I couldn't possibly comment here.
It was just when I heard him talk about the RAM boost.
This was something that yeah, I was like, I'm really interested.
How does this technically done?
Yeah, exactly.
Do you?
Is there like anything I might see?
Yeah, I was thinking, is it like a script that goes sleep?
Variable number of sessions.
If RAM boosts on, then don't sleep one second.
Or it could them zip.
It could zip the RAM.
The data in the RAM could be shipped.
I don't remember the name we have nowadays, but I was used a while ago in R&B and already for quite a while.
Shall we move on?
Sure.
Cheap computers.
By used run long.
Moss bliss.
An episode there on getting an old computer.
Can't argue with this.
The novel Think Center M700.
I purchased the novel Yoda.
Laptop.
I'm very happy with the purchase.
Yoga or Yoda?
Yoga, because it can bend over in the south and become a tablet.
It was recommended by...
It was the one that David Ravoy from Casper and Carrot again uses when he's out on the road.
So he explained how to install everything.
I'm thinking I'll end up giving it to my youngest who's got a flare for our art and design.
But yeah, we'll see.
I must put a lot of thoughts into this podcast, which was really nice from top to bottom.
Really appreciated.
Yeah, he's a professional podcaster.
Yeah, you can tell.
Who's Jo and Hendrix?
Probably my turn.
Henry Camryne says refurbished computers.
Thank you, Mars, for both your general suggestion to buy an old machine and also for the detailed technical suggestions.
Till a couple of years ago, I've always bought new computers except early days when it was possible to get very old almost for free at my work.
Instead of using eBay equivalent, bought and bought my old refurbished computers online directly from companies here in Sweden, focused on refurbished IT.
It might be somewhat more expensive and the offerings more limited with the advantages to buy from those selected companies with good reputation are that they grade the equipment plus give warranty.
When I bought with the best grade, the computer and the phone looks as it is brand new.
So I did agree with you to consider to buy an old computer as well as to consider Linux of choice.
Yes.
Also to mention this kind of devices are a professional grade.
So it's different to when you go to the consumer one.
Yeah, that's a follow point.
New Year's show number two and a lot of comments in there.
A lot of stuff in there.
Again, no comments.
So we'll move on to the next episode.
Which was playing civilization part three.
Civilization part three, part four.
If that makes any sense to you.
And that was today's episode.
So not surprisingly, we don't have any feedback, but this was a continuation of a hookers playing civilization three.
And then this is part four where topics about war, conquest, etc.
Yeah, good, good stuff.
I did listen to it actually.
I was trying to catch up with everything, realizing it was today's episode.
I don't listen to them on the day.
But yeah, it's good.
The detail of it is something that I find quite amazing.
Doesn't make me want to play.
That's just me.
Don't take anything out for it.
Absolutely.
Gamers, we need a gamer coming on here.
We do, we do.
We've got like a new map over there in the corner with all sorts of like D buttons and shoulder buttons and joysticks and everything.
Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, frame rate.
It's awesome.
LEDs up and down.
A handle on it.
Something else, yeah.
And you just want to see the integration with the mop and the bucket underneath.
It's super, Dave.
Just right there in the corner, just waiting for somebody to pick it up.
And Dave has a steam box, don't you?
I do, yes, yes, yes.
Not getting a huge lot of use just at the moment, but I did buy some games which I'm determined to play with.
Apart from the ones I got with it from my kids.
I saw Lily Puting.
If you're listening to this on the day of release, has a special offer thing going.
So yeah, they're chucking, reduce the price of their steam decks.
All right, right, right.
Yeah, I think they're pretty desirable to those like them type of things which I hope to be before too long.
Okay, okay.
We have two missed comments from last month.
Highlights are in red, thank you, Dave.
And the first one was on HBR4112, which was Jason Vendor of my, or my, by operator.
And I was a comment left by myself.
I'll do both of them if you don't mind.
Okay.
And it was, my comment was, JQ gives you the error reporting with a line and the error that occurs in answer to JQ.
And the other was building community without SEO by Hobbs.
Just had some time looking into the Discord link, but it doesn't seem to be working.
So the link to the Discord channel doesn't seem prepared for working, but that's also fine.
No doubt we'll get that sorted in the fullness of time.
So did you post those during the show?
I did just.
Maybe you did.
He did at least one of them.
Yeah, okay.
So if you were, it was officially after the show.
Yes.
So there's nothing on the mail list either, Dave this month.
There are two past shows that we don't read these out because everyone shows that are in the past.
We normally read those out a bit further down.
Common systems, past shows which are the, do you want to do the first one?
And I'll do the first one.
HPR4118.
Toil versus livelihood by DNT.
This is D-O-D-D dummy who says, I agree, but I'm concerned about the transition.
I agree that the toil isn't the point and a lot of people aren't doing what they want to do.
My concern is how we'll make the transition from what we have to the toiless future.
Seems not all, not at all clear to me.
We'll make that transition without insert favorite post apocalyptic movie title.
You want me to do the other one?
I really do so.
The next one for episode 41, 26, podcasting for newbies from Moss place.
There is a comment from Henry Cameron.
Equipment experience, encouragement and radio.
Thanks Moss for sharing your experience.
Equipment details and encouragement to an 21 who wants to become a podcaster.
Nice also to learn about your radio background.
Cool.
And I know Henry is giving very good supported feedback.
Absolutely.
Yes, yes, it's good.
And as you were about to say, there isn't any about any important message,
just the one I sent out back to this show, recording the show.
So do you want to do the any other business?
Or I will actually.
So there's the mention there of the opus feed.
So we've been producing opus for ages.
And we've also been producing flat feeds as an audio as well and we have indeed.
But opus seems like something people would like.
We of course can produce that.
But I'll read out what you wrote there, Dave.
RSS feeds are currently being created real time on hub.hackerpublicradio.org.
The plan has always been to make all the feeds static generating by the static site.
Generator script in the HPR underscore generator repository.
Zengeti links on every page of HPR.
Changing RSS feeds is a dangerous process in that feed readers pod catchers.
And so can get triggered by what they appear like insignificant changes,
making them download files that have already been downloaded,
even though they are not different work is ongoing to produce new static feeds.
But they will need extensive testing before they can release to the world at large.
To do this, we need testers.
So we would appreciate it if you could call upon volunteers to assist with this process.
Now, in addition to that, one of my four luck in the morning notes has been.
We also need people who subscribe on your platform of choice.
If you have, if you listen to HPR on a particular pod catcher,
and would like to work with us to improve the way HPR is presented on that platform,
please get in touch.
The reason, if you search for Hackerpublicradio on the internet,
you're more than likely going to get the Internet archive returned first.
And this is because of the work that Dave Morris alone by himself,
without help from anybody has done in improving the way our content is presented over there.
This is fantastic, and I don't have a problem with that because the Internet archive is essentially an official HPR repository.
When the HPR domain dies and eventually turns into a porn site, as inevitably will,
or a scammer site, hopefully the Internet archive will continue to exist in some form or another,
although not a good week for the Internet archive either being sued out of existence, but okay.
That's about the buy.
So if you, so that it's important, if you're listening to us on your platform of choice,
and there's stuff about our feed that is bugging you on platform of choice,
be it pod catcher, be it service, be it whatever, open closed,
proprietary, it doesn't matter.
If you could take ownership of that first, and by that,
I mean, you don't need to be working 24 hour days on it.
It means if you can send us occasional screenshots or work with us,
and that we'll put up a test feed and you can subscribe to that,
and we can go to and fro and see if we can improve the look and feel on there,
then that will help you out because we fixed stuff that's bugging you,
but it will also help us out and other people on that particular platform.
So that, please get in touch.
I want to put on the GT, probably repository,
a matrix, and you know, like Lineage OS has where you've got all the devices listed and stuff,
and following the standard format, so that we know where everything is mapped to and stuff.
Does that, how do you, that makes sense, Dave?
Sorry for not even discussing this with you guys beforehand.
Yeah, I think so.
I think so.
That's actually a great idea, and it hooks into the discussion we had a few episodes back,
a few community news is back where the issue of who is the author of a particular episode on HBO is not clear,
and you know, could we be looking at ways in which you could make it clearer?
So that's all part of the same picture, isn't it?
Yeah, and I've noticed that on some platforms, some shows are promoted above others,
and I've gone, why is this?
Oh, because they've got an image or because they've got this tag filled in.
Okay.
You know, so we should also be having our host images on there, on the feeds.
We should also be having, we should also be having stuff like, you know, press here to comment,
press here to, it should be in the feed itself, but then we have space limitations and stuff.
So we, they're technical.
I do this and work all the time, by the way, this is my job, I work, I work for somebody,
and definitely this is not related to work by, by the way.
So we do need to map into some platforms, for example, you can't exceed a thousand character limits and other platforms.
This all makes sense because, you know, the only of so much space in the UI at some point,
it'll get truncated.
So stuff like that, all the fields that we have, do the get rendered, do the not get rendered,
do we need to put them into somewhere else where they come visible?
Basically polishing up our act.
And if you have issues with HPR, on your podcast, you're please get in touch.
I've stopped talking.
I think we're done.
I think we're done.
Okay, so all that's left to say is tune in tomorrow for another sighting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
