Episode: 4086
Title: HPR4086: HPR Community News for March 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4086/hpr4086.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:29:01

---

This is hacker public radio episode 4,086 from Monday the 1st of April 2024.
Today's show is entitled, HPR Community News from March 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 60 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in March 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Falon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker,
a public radio.
Joining me this evening is, hello Dave Morris here from sunny Edinburgh, first time in weeks.
Excellent.
It is pouring, well not pouring down, it's Irish misting here, which is the continuous
non-stop drizzle light mist that you get that is too light to put on a coat and yet at
the same time you get absolutely soaked.
Yeah, I know the thing with the potential of never stopping.
Yep, yep, yep, it's been there, I remember bringing it home some, hey, like the last
field away we had and that started Irish misting and we were tearing down the road trying
to get the bales in before they, before the last field.
And some American tired cousins arrived as was warm top and from now on again, oh my
god, I love your Irish mist.
You wish they got full bronze Irish.
Yes, you disagreed with them, obviously, yeah, I did with a lot of floral language, but
it turns out they were used to it.
So actually in hindsight, that must have been a vision coming down because we had so many
bales on the tractor, it was tipping over, so three of us were sitting at the front on
the bales.
Oh, yeah, perfectly natural.
Health and safety, but you see these guys on bikes in India and Pakistan and stuff.
How the hell do they even go in a straight line on those things?
Anyways, for those of you joining for the first time, as I was seeing a lot of people join
on mastodol, welcome.
We don't always talk about farming reminiscence, it's hacker public radio, which is a bit
of a misnomer.
We're hacker in the sense that we are accepting shows from anybody who does something interesting
with tech, unless early tech, just something interesting that other hackers will be interested
in.
We're public insofar as every one and zero on the site is free, Libra, an open, other
under creative commons or a OSI approved license, and we're radio in the sense that we're
not radio.
We're not radio.
Well, we do have a thriving ham radio community and we are syndicated in some college
networks, so if you're free to do that, if you wish.
We are, though, is a place for people to come and share their stories, ideas, and if
you happen to be in a place where people just do not appreciate what you have managed
to pull off, and you realize that nobody in your family will be just not going yet, yeah,
okay?
I can see why you'd be excited about that.
Order a show, put it up here, and tell us about us, and we will appreciate it for you.
So Dave, does that describe HPR?
I think it does, yes, yes, it's not an easy thing to describe, but that's a pretty good
go, I think.
Yeah, and what's the community news then if that is HPR?
You're asking me, well, it's where we, the janitors and anybody else who wants to
join in, as long as they've, they're up to date with all the shows in the past month,
get to look at all of those shows, we visit each one, we read the comments and make comments
about themselves in many cases, and we get a bit of exposing of the show to the audience
in case they haven't listened to it, and that sort of thing, so, and it also gives the
host of the shows, you know, some sort of feedback, which is, which is nice, if you're sitting
there in some sort of a vacuum, and you don't, I said in that show, but nobody said anything,
it's, it's quite nice to have, even us, telling you good things about your show, so that's
what we do.
Absolutely, the currency here, everything on HPR is, is free in, so far as the whole
hosting and all that stuff is provided by Josh Knapp over at an Honesthost.com, an Honesthost.com,
free, gratis, member of the community, post shows themselves, we also use the internet
archive for hosting our creative commons works, and all the other stuff domain registrations,
all that stuff is just paid for by the community, nobody, nobody really asks, it just happens,
stickers and boots, kits, it also just comes from the community, so it's provided as a
gratis service, and in the idea that there's a place where you can come and submit your
shows.
So, we, Dave and I are the janitors, we take care of the day-to-day municia, is that a word,
Dave?
I think you're going for minutiae, that's the word, minutiae, yeah, yeah, and as you can
see, the, the, the bar doesn't have to be too high intellectually for a trickle-up
group, however, so if, so if you record a show, you, if you have a topic that you want to
talk about, you press record on your recording device, you go to the HPR website, you pick
a slot, or you can add it to the reserve show, if you're a new host, please put it into
the, into the schedule slot, there's an upload button on all the pages, and it brings you
to the calendar, and you pick the day you want your show released, a link will be sent
here, you'll fill out the information, that information will be used later to add to the
show notes, it'll be added to the MP3 tags, or you know, the ID3 tags in the media, it'll
be used on the social media networks to promote your show on the day it's released, and Dave
and I take care of the making sure the show is posted on time, and all that jazz, but
that's, that's basically it. Transcripts will be available, you'll have your own host page,
you can do a, if the topic is, is new, if the topic is too big, you can split it over
several shows, if you want, if you're listening to HPR and you haven't submitted the show, first
of all, record a show telling us who you are, a little bit about your history, where you
come from, how you got into tech, that's always a good, that's always a good one, it usually
encourages us to, to ask you for shows that you wouldn't have thought of doing yourself,
and likewise, if you have shows that you can't find an HPR, what would like to be done,
you can always contact us on the social medias, or send us an email, admin at HPR, etc, and
that's pretty much it, so what we are doing here on this show, Dave, is we're going down
through each of the shows, and let's start, earlier I said, no more waffle, because I really
want this to be a short show, we're already eight minutes in, and we haven't done the first
show yet, so the first show was by noodles, and it was on Friday, the hang on, what, interrupt,
interrupt, there are new hosts, we have a new host thing, which sometime, which quite often,
unfortunately, says we haven't got any this month, but this month, we do have a new host,
and it is Henrik Henrik, and we will be hearing some, hearing from Henrik later on as we go
through the show, so thank you very much. I have the feeling that Henrik is very close to the
community, I follow him on, on Mastadon, I think he's already submitted another show, has he?
I think there are two, there are two in the system, yeah, yeah. Cool, good, good, good, good,
and you two can be fame and fortune, well fame, possibly not, fortune, definitely not,
but as we say here on HBR, the measure of your show is not the number of downloads,
it's the amount of people who, when stuck in a jam, took inspiration from your show,
got them out of a, got them out of a fix, or got them out of a bad place in relation to some of
the shows that we've done specifically, the mental health ones, or just cheering people up,
so that's us, so shall we do the first show then Dave, by the end of March, which was
Freymark 13 Generation Review by Noodles, and there were no comments on that, but no comments.
It's good, it's an interesting subject, because various people in my family and around have said,
oh, what about this Freymark, are they any good? I said, ah, go and listen to that show and see
what you think of that, so yeah, very helpful thing to have done, I think. Yeah, I love the
concept, they're quite expensive, but I do love the concept. Yeah, people were very excited when
the first, the idea of it was, was, was announced, I think, but yeah, but now, I think it's taking
a while to actually get any out there in the, in the wild, but it just might be me not paying enough
attention, but still, it's, it's a great idea, and it sounds like the, the right thing to do,
as the owner of a smartphone, which is sort of in the same league in terms of the, um,
Fairphone, sorry, a Fairphone, which is in the same sort of league, of course, you can take it,
so you can't really upgrade it, but you can replace bits with, with relative ease,
so very, very much for this, so if I do. Yeah, cool, the Freymark is a laptop that is modular
and everything based around USB-C modules, and you can build your own essentially, so very cool,
lots of hacking ability there, and you can take out the module for the motherboard,
and I saw that somebody upgraded their laptop and then used the other one as a standalone server,
somewhere else, so, hmm, great, so yeah, yeah, then we had the Community News, which is,
they show, and there were no comments, Dave, no controversies at all, so everything's great here,
or doing our job, we're just so easy going, and yeah, recordings, yep, yep, good, hacking AI
models to protect your livelihood by hubs, and I, I must say, you know, the taxing goes off
every time my, the word AI comes in, and my eyes start twitching a smidgen,
but this one was actually about things that you could do to protect your own stuff, the Fox,
blade, nightshade, and I'll go, Dave, I'll go, Mick, I think, thank you, yeah, tools,
and this brilliant, just, Fox is, will mask, for anonymous hackers around the world,
glaze is a digital paint, curing process to protect your art, and nightshade is a software
blue pill that you can hide your digital creation, so that the AI consuming your work,
without your permission, will also consume the blue pill and get sucked into an endless
hallucination, absolutely fabulous. Do you want to do Trays, come on? Trays says,
Deja Vu, is this the same as HBR 4055? I feel I'm caught in a time loop, and what it's referring to
is that the two shows are very, very, very similar in their content, completely different in
their layout, I believe, but very similar in their content, so I think in a slight mix up
along the, along the way there, but I don't know, nobody's, nobody's complaining, so I think
it's fine, sometimes, sometimes mix ups occur, well anyway, it's the first time we've heard
the show, I have a listen, it's well worth it, listen. Yep, good notes to some good links there,
to go and research further, but there are genuinely two recordings of two different shows,
maybe it's just two different takes, I'm posted, so, don't know, yeah, don't know what was gone
on there, we've been spotted at the time, so, no, we didn't, there was no easy way of telling
because we don't listen to the audio, and the notes are quite different between the two shows,
so yeah, that's the thing that we forgot to mention in our introduction, we don't listen to
any of the audio that gets posted, there's several reasons for that, the first one being
that, who are we to judge what can and can't be on the network, and except for spam, of course,
we're very, very good at determining what spam date, a lot of practice, and secondly, it means
the DMCA stuff doesn't apply because we got the save harbor, we're not editors, we're just posting
show, and that means you, not us, are going to get sued for the content of your show.
Nice. The following day, we had Mr. X replacing a light bulb in a
Magnesium, or as you like to call it, a microwave oven. Yeah, good stuff it. Trace says,
Nicely done, ease repair and well done. When my microwave filled a few years ago, I discovered
a very fried controller board, I used this as an excuse to harvest the transformer and replace
the microwave. The question I have been debating is should I use the transformer to make a small spot
welder or to create fractal wood art with the high voltage side. The larger is tempting,
but the risks are higher. Yeah, I've seen people doing this. The spot welder thing is quite neat,
but both potentially dangerous, I suspect. You've got to know what you're doing. Do
me to read your comment. Yeah, I should have done mine. Okay, be very careful messing with
high current voltage like this can kill you. YouTube videos often play very lightly with safety,
so if you are doing it and I am not recommending that you do, then be sure to rely on people that
take safety seriously. Check multiple sources, employ safety protocols and have others trained
ready to assist you if you are incapacitated. My strong advice would be the fractal wood art
stay well away from that. It is literally dangerous. Loads of people have been killed or not. There is no
there is no comeback. There's no margin for error on that at all. Several people have been killed
and others seriously injured. The best you can hope for is that you'll only lose a limb.
My strong advice is if you want something looking like fractal wood art, learn how to paint.
As far as spot welders are concerned, also, yeah, the spot welders from Ali Express are now
so cheap that probably is dangerous for the least. Yeah. Well, and welders in general are pretty
cheap if you go for the bottom of the range. Places like the little are selling them all the time.
Those are usually meagre or art welders, so you're into that type of thing. You might be better
to go and look at something like that. I think this is probably for putting tabs on 18650
batteries and stuff like that. So far for me to stop trade from doing something because
Bob, heavy advice is safety first and be careful. If big clive is warning people not to do it,
then you know. It just take a few risks himself and not that far. And even as a boom,
what's the electric boom? Electric boom also is warning people about it.
Yep. Okay, passwords and warren news. Some guy mentioned that talks about passwords and
bit warren, warden, warden, bit warden, sorry guys, bit warden. And this is outside of the
onion news things, but he felt it necessary to bring it out. So yeah, it was quite interesting.
Not dabbled with bit warden, but it's quite interesting to have some pointers too at things
I could find out more about. So yeah. So I'll do Delta Rays comment, who says, thanks for the
shout out. Nice show. I like to explain your categorization of the risk levels, your accounts.
Glad to hear you like my show or try and make some more security related shows.
Excellent positive feedback guys going both ways. There is nothing nicer than getting a positive
feedback on a show that you do. Particularly if you put some time and effort into it. It's really
nice. It's the one thing that you can do on HPR without, you know, you can have a million one
excuses for not sending an initial, but you know, go into the website, click and uncomment, blah.
And the password is public, by the way, the answer to the spam question.
So Civilization 3, we start to look at the next game in our Civilization franchise. Civilization 3,
where Ouka continues Civilization franchise followed and followed upon the Alpha Centuary game.
So more of this history probably best to listen to the whole series to get some context.
Yeah, yeah, it's always very, very comprehensive. And you can go to his website. I think I've
said this before. His website is a really good resource for going back and checking through stuff
that he's talked about on the show. Yeah, brilliant. And then we had Henrik's first show on
Migrating to GGM as a digital asset management piece of software. And as look would have a day,
this is something that I have been, I knew about GGM. Absolutely. But I completely, it was off my
radar and now I'm back to my archiving project again, which never ends. And I was thinking,
right, I might just dust that off. And I'm glad to hear that there are more shows in this series.
And I'm hoping that he will continue to do GGM. And if he does a lot of few shows on GGM,
we can make a series on digital asset. No, actually, that would be great. Yeah, yeah. And then
maybe others will contribute to it as well, which would be good, no pressure, no pressure.
No, no, I'm just wondering is there a, I have a lot of photos and I would like to get,
you know, face recognition of the photos without having to send them out to, you know,
selling your soul. So that would be a question for Henrik or indeed somebody else.
You know, here's a, here's a thing of photos. Sort them based on my children's development age,
taking into account that they look completely different when they're younger than they do now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I actually use digital camera. I have used it more than I am just
at the moment. But I use it quite a lot. And we used to travel a moderate amount of kids and I,
and I used to try and get GPS locations, which you can, you can store in it and stuff like that.
So you can, you can do map links and that sort of stuff. So yeah, I've got a whole series of
Czech Republic. What do they call it? No, Czechia. And going around Prague and stuff like that.
Yeah, and Berlin and all that sort of thing. You know how you do. And yeah, it's a cool thing to do.
I mean, yeah, it'd be better to use something central rather than on my machine, but still,
it's a good, it's a good way of doing stuff. Kevin O'Brien says, good show. Digital
Cam is the software I use and I'm glad to see that it works well for others. I take lots of
old rules when I travel and Digital Cam helps me sort it all out and manages. If you haven't tried
it, give it a look and see how it works for you. It's free open source software. So Kevin has done
Digital Cam as well. I'm now looking forward to the library office style. Digital Cam,
gone through every interface. Not actually coming. Not that you saw the RV plenty of time.
It's quite a convoluted piece of software, but it's very, very powerful. So yeah, and Kevin will
have spotted all the corners that I will have missed for sure. So good. The next episode was
and still is Piper Text-to-Speech Engine, where R272 talks about Piper Teeth Text-to-Speech
using Piper Voice, which I asked him about only yesterday, because I had wanted to do it
in order to be when we're doing the reserve shows. So after the new year, we had a spurt, you know,
solitude where we get a lot of shows and then it falls off, a lot of shows falls off.
And we're now in the fall and off period, and we're taking shows from the reserve queue.
So what I want to be able to do is quickly add in some additional information in the text-to-speech
before a reserve show. So that yeah, it's more up to date. So we can give, is this something,
is this reserve show just a slot that we don't need to be that concerned about, or whether it's,
okay guys, reserve shows for the next three weeks. Can we please send us in some shows?
So Archer sent me on the information I need for that. Piper seems like a very, very easy
and really natural, natural sounding voices. And I'm wondering what Mike Ray would think of it.
Yes, yes, that's a good, good question. Yes. Or do you fulfill two different things?
Personally, I use these my two. For my text-to-speech, you know, whether you're reading out a screen,
but, you know, for podcasts, you want something a little bit more?
Yes, I guess, yeah. If you're a user of the e-speak, then you adapt, just hope to it,
and you can run it really fast, especially if you need to like, like with Mike Ray.
But this, but then people, if you use it on the HDR, people say, it's so harsh and horrible,
I don't like it. Yeah, especially if you get it to re-choose. And whereas these are much
gentler on the ears and not quite as jarring. But, you know, you could get used to either,
I would imagine, but yeah, I quite like this one. It amused me, there's a voice there. I think,
is it called Ray or Ryan or something that suddenly goes into this strange verbal?
It's just that particular voice. It says, hello, and then it goes blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I was just laughing with my joking without just 72 saying, that's the one I want on my home assistant,
you know, when it says, hey Dave, there's somebody else, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I'll be really used to it. Yes. Yeah, I mean, it's all only used stuff is under development.
The stuff's just me finding amusement from this stuff. So where are we off to cyberpunk?
Is it trickster show? Yeah, sorry, I was just scrolling down through onto 72, just longer than I
thought it was. Yeah, trickster and the documentary cyberpunk. Yeah, this is a good show to,
you know, is it worth watching an old hacker media show? I know we'll go into it. It's
there available for you to see and watch. And HBR listener says, restoration on archive.org
would be much appreciated if trickster could pause the link to their mentioned HD restoration
of the documentary and archive.org as the linked version on YouTube is geo restricted.
Yep. And trickster replies, a slightly better version. I've updated my previous upload with a
high high quality version restored with better techniques. You should be able to find it at
an archive.org link to it. So hopefully that's solved the problem. Super duper.
The next day was Daniel Pearson's experience playing Jade Empire.
Jade Empire is based on the past in China or Japan. And you will be following this
artist searching for their kidnapped trainer. Awesome. And again, we need somebody desperately
using to gaming to pick up the janitor broom and join us here on the four issues.
Yes, we were somewhat lacking experience in this area. So our enthusiasm, Daniel is
is our fault. It's it's also it's also not you. So let's move on to the next show. Making a
pom-odoro timer to match all timer. Indeed. Yes, Spanish. Spanish for tomorrow.
So the idea is Norris gets distracted easily. And the idea is that after 20 or 30 minutes
he gets distracted. So this timer sets a it's basically an app. And it goes off for a period
of time. And then before he gets distracted, he's able to go do something else and then come
back and then focus. So not bad. Yep. He's using a device called the Circuit Playground Express,
which is an Adafruit product, I think, which is a rather nice circular PCB, which with LEDs
around around the edge, I think. RGB LED. So he does a sort of countdown in in color and stuff.
There's a countdown for the the work period and a countdown for the break period. I thought
this was absolutely brilliant. I would love to have one of those. I'm not really sure why.
Yes, but I just like to have a thing that can't stuff for me and says, well, I've got a clock here on
my shelf, the shelf of my monitors, which when I did an HPR show on building, it's one of these
things you can get off eBay and build it yourself. And I switched on the hour beep because
having a bad knee, I need to get up every hour and walk about it. Otherwise it freezes up. So
it's really useful for that, but the Pomodoro and Star of Timer would be a much nicer,
more pleasant thing. So you wouldn't be surprised by this horrible beep that this clock makes,
and it could be completely silent, I think, if you wanted it to be. And you know, you could just
look at lights. I would quite like that. So yeah, very much. Thank you for thinking about something like that
for the middle guy who just can't understand time as a concept. Yeah. Not for one, just try it or
anything. I'm going to say, though, that anything on the Adafruit site is going to be very well put
together and very well documented. If you're interested in electronics, it's always a good place
to start. There's stuff is probably more expensive, but the quality is probably better. That's
my personal recommendation. We don't have sponsors here in Azure. I fully agree with that.
They do some magnificent products. I like watching their YouTube things from
on occasion because you can see that the enthusiasm we've made a new thing, and they tell you
about it and you think, wow, it's people living their best life. I would just want to buy it so badly.
More electronic craft here projects that I have about, anyway, Tray says, great project. I like
the idea of this timer for those of us who are easily distracted and get so focused on this
specific problem we forget to eat. Yeah, that will be more me. The Raspberry Pi Pico reminds me of
Arduino. Now, I need to do some research to compare a contrast. I better set a timer.
Very good. We're up to the 18th Wled House lights. This is where operator has got
led lights for the holidays. It's not another thing that we do here so much in Europe.
Don't know what the UK has. It has become more popular in my lifetime, but
it's nowhere near the level that you find in the US, as far as I'm aware, and you're not
actually going and visiting. I mean, things like music that's played on a band that your car
radio can pick up and that sort of stuff to go with it. That's way, way, it's probably illegal
anyway here, but it's way over the top. But yeah, yeah, yeah. Some people put lights out at Christmas
and stuff, but usually it's quite small and subtle. This one sounds like it's big news. Not
there's a video and it's well worth watching. I must say, I'm torn between the conservative of me
going, gosh, that's very tacky. I'm doing a British accent for that. On the other hand,
I love this stuff. Oh, God, I love it. Yeah, there you go. Yes, it's definitely some interesting
stuff going on here and he seems to have managed it in such a way that you hear all the tales
of people using this way back in time when they were all incandescent bulbs and stuff like that,
which are massive loads and it's really quite difficult to run off your home powers. But this
one sounds like it's going to be a lot more manageable and cheaper to run and probably not cheaper
to install by an insol, but still pretty, pretty good, I think. Cool. The next day, Mr. Young,
with the continuing FFM bag series, joining us with him files, love this show. This series is
dedicated entirely and solely for me. So anybody else has a problem with this. Don't bother,
go bother complaining. This is entirely for me. This is my show. However, Hendrick says,
useful to learn how FFM peg can be used. Your presentation, in particular, the concatenate command
give me an idea for some TS files and where they can be useful for me. Cool. Yeah, I thought
the show was really nicely put together, logically organised and very clearly explained step by step.
So yeah, it's a huge morass of information in FFM peg. I've only just sort of touched the surface
of it and gone, but yeah, more like this will really open the thing up and make it more usable to
many people, I think, exactly. And Mr. Young and yourself have all really collaborated
earlier on a set up and grip one. No, it was the the oak show. So we did. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That was that was a lot of fun. Yeah. Did you, did we read the command? Yes, we did.
We wanted to get back to find it. I'm not very quick on, are they using most? Most is
yes. So we had an Estello with reading, learning to read music part two pitch. So part one was how to
where we have to do a print off a more crowned, the street with the print off listening to his show.
And this one was about pitch. And the notes show notes over a Estello.info are fantastic.
Can you do Trace? Tolog, please. Yeah, good show. Trace, excuse me, Trace says, desperate plea for a
drummer to respond, Kursumag. Great podcast. Well, I've dabbled in music over years on several
instruments or never drums. It's sad that I never came proficient with any. Maybe when I retire,
I'll sit back sit on the back porch with my guitar and antagonize the squirrels. Thank you for
sharing. I'm hoping there's a drummer out there who will record an episode responding to the drummer
remarks. And you'll have to listen to the show to find out what that's all about. So the following
day was a show by me, but actually it was the corresponding source where it was me as a janitor,
posting a show. And this came across this from Dan Lynch, because Bradley Kuhn and Karen Sandler,
who were the hosts of the freeism freedom podcast, have started a while rebooted their podcast
as the corresponding source, where they're going to be doing more stuff. So feel free to have
a listen to that and subscribe. All the links you need are in the show notes. Yeah, it's
sound really good. I subscribe to that one, because it sounded like there was a lot of potential
there. So it was with the freeism freedom, but yeah, it's good, good stuff. And then I kind of
ruined this series, Georgia to South Carolina, where Ouka visits the beautiful city of Savannah,
Georgia, and then they go to Charleston, South Carolina. Fantastic photos again.
I was going to do the joke about the bearded guy with a hat.
Oh, we just leave it on, because it becomes traditional. It seems to be traditional, yeah.
So yeah, I, the copies I have of the shows would be downloaded early on when there was a slight
distortion in them. So I tend to listen to them on the, on the website, because I can't be bugged
if I don't know them. But yeah, this time I actually sat here listening to it, watching,
looking at the blog that Ouka puts together. And that's really good, because he links to all the
photos. So you get the context really clearly by following his notes and then clicking on the
photos and that sort of stuff. It's really good. It's how traveloggy things should be done, I think.
One thing goes, go on, sorry. No, it's just going to say that when I clicked on that link,
it takes me to the last shows page. We just do next, click next, and get to the one relating to
this show. But I don't know if Ouka's listening, I might message him to say, you want that thick,
so it points to the appropriate bit, that would be, that would be no problem.
So as I was listening to this, it was during the summer of course, Ouka tends to post issues,
almost a year and a half, and I actually stopped on Wednesday and watched some of the videos
about firing the weapons and stuff. So yeah, really, yeah. I absolutely love the way he takes
pictures of the information boards. It's exactly my sort of guy. Yeah, I showed my son and his
girlfriend these shows, because they like to travel quite a lot. They're off to Japan,
late in April, and they like to take a lot of pictures, but they haven't yet got a
full proof way of sort of joining them together in this sort of a travelogue, or if you like to
call it that type of structure. So I don't know if they're going to borrow some of Ouka's ideas
and do that, because if you've been to fancy places, it's great to have something you could look
back on a few years later. Do we have a go to? Yeah, good stuff, very good stuff.
So the following day, we had, well actually it was a Monday, all known news, where some guy
on the internet gives us some moral, written panic and plural clutching nonsense. So I love the
format of this. So we're some guy in the internet gives us a rundown on what's going on and
explains this in lay person terms. So lots of comments. Have you read the last one?
I really can't remember. I'll do this one. Okay, so it says pearl clutching,
great to hear another episode of all on use. Keep up the awesome work. Good. Let me have a
comment by HBR listener who says unnecessary insult. It is noticed that Scotty continues to use
the open nature of HBR to insert insults into shows towards those expressing legitimate
criticism of judgmental past statements he has made. To which I replied as a janitor,
HBR listener, you appear to have an issue with some guy in the internet, rather than
hashing it out here in the comments. Can you please contact the janitors using the email address
admin at hackerpublicradio.org, or if you prefer an inter independent ear, then we have the
auditors at hitchhicapublicradio.org. So janitors are you and me and the auditors are community
members independent. So you can raise your issues with them. And then if you could do the next response.
So some guy on the internet says desperately comma with white knuckles comma clutching pearls.
I said at my desk clutching my pearls with baited breath listening for the soothing sound of
good heavens. It can't be during these moral panic written times. Thank you, Trey.
Super. E slash OS. This is from Henrik E slash OS. An open source Android alternative.
Regarding Android, I use E slash OS as an operating system on my dealing mobile form from the E
foundation. E slash OS is based on lineage OS, which in turn is based on Android open source
platform. E slash OS is almost the Google version of Android. And in general, EOS works well for me,
but still some apps do not work fully or not at all. So unfortunately, I need a backup form
for some purposes. Not unlikely. Not unlikely are issues related to micro G, which replaces Google
services, but cannot mimic it in every detail. Despite issues I enjoy is joy to use alternatives
to very non free software iOS and Google Android. That's that's almost a short day.
Yeah, we've not we I certainly know the existence of this, but I don't recall anybody
talking about it in any any depth. So yeah, the show was EOS I've never heard of before.
When I was looking for something to put on this phone I have here, which I haven't done anything
with yet, that was one of the possibilities, but yeah, I'd love to know more.
Okay, so the comment from Kevin O'Brien, which I will do a good show, he says, I always enjoy
the oh no news. Yeah, that's do me a one who doesn't. Well, all of us too anyway.
No swans at swans, swanston swanston. I guess swans town. Probably yes,
there's somebody called swan probably not in that. I didn't bother to look to me,
I said, you probably can find lots of lots of history if you delve. So this is where two creepy
guys get into a car. Sorry, Dave. Dave and Mr. X could never be construed to be two creepy guys.
So until you're out. So until you're out. Anyway, move it on. Sorry, Mr. X. I'm not a
apologise and to Dave. Sorry, Dave. After the coach. You know what just I look for.
I love these shows, just a quick chat and hear some stuff basically. Yeah, we run them stuff.
Yeah, yeah, we accumulate odds and odds in a Google doc over the intervening period and
various things we want to. Oh, yeah, there's a thing we could talk about. Here's another thing
we could talk about and then we try and make sure that it's sometimes thrown away quite a lot
because always we could be going on for hours. So still we want to shut us up, unfortunately.
Anyway, we enjoy doing it and if anybody gets anything out of it, then so much the better.
So they show the following day was a reserve show, a drive cast, a man talk,
where some guy on the internet discusses men's issues when driving. So this was a very good show,
indeed, very, very much what HPR is all about of interest to hackers. Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I sort of taken it back slowly. I mean, as somebody who's done a
biology degree, which included a firm out of human physiology and stuff, I wasn't expecting to hear
a dive tribe about such a subject from HPR that just goes to show. I don't understand the
SPR enough, isn't it? It's great, it's great. I'm not doing a kind. Along speech,
it usually has negative commentations. So not necessarily, is it? Yeah, I don't know.
I would be, I don't know, it wouldn't been attempted to go off into the biology end of things.
But yeah, I think it was very well put together and handled excellent.
Yeah, I have, having had kidney issues as a child, I can like pregnant women, the world over,
can tell you where the public toilets are in a 10 kilometer radius of any particular point of
the planet. And my, my, my standing thing is see a toilet, use a toilet. So yeah, very good,
particularly as a long distance truck driver. And in essence, the show was about the liquid
distribution associated with some of the receptacles. We have had the same issue in other places,
but it's also been down to the lack of BDA facilities being provided by the by the toilets
and what's customary in other areas. And I know, um, um, uh, tattoo did the show on
alternatives to toilet roll, uh, as, as during the COVID thing. And promised me an episode on how
to use a BDA. And, um, so that's a, that's an episode. And the thing I noticed when I went to
America, it was how the toilets are so different to other places that have been the world over. So
yeah, that might be a show in itself. There's, there's a lot, a lot of stuff there, yeah, yeah. My,
my, um, son, et cetera, are going to Japan. They could, they could do show on Japanese toilets,
which are strange and wonderful things. Yep. Um, that's, yeah, I'll, I'll mention it to him,
but I think the chances are pretty slim. Yeah, chances are, you know how it is. I do what you
can ask, uh, to learn learning. This was Daniel's experience trying to train a model online.
A lot more complicated than I thought it would be given all this AI stuff on around. What did you
think? Yeah, yeah, I was surprised at this. Um, a bit, uh, a bit, yeah, it was surprising how
much had to be done. I was, I felt I was missing some context here. I imagine Daniel has got
a lot more knowledge that I don't have in, you know, how, what you actually need. Um, and, uh,
and, you know, then he was talking about how to, to get it, but that is describing what,
what you need to be looking for. I thought, anyway, it was just me not being, not being up to speed
perhaps, but to, yeah, but it is, it is quite, uh, quite surprising. What, uh, what a, uh, dance,
you have to, to lead to, uh, to get where you want to be. I think it's early days and the whole
cloud learning, um, uh, arena. Good show though. Uh, the following day, we had Android user land,
Google assistant chat GPT operator tells you how to get past no ABA, uh, Android debuggy,
and blocking third party APKS, which was all very interesting, and tells me that operator is
operating on a completely different plateau to, to me. Yes, yes, yes. But it, uh, I noticed
myself were some very cool hacky things to be done on an Android phone, but most of it
passes me by because I don't have enough context to, to understand. So yeah, yeah, yeah, it'll probably
bits of that will start to join together a bit later on, um, as I think about it. But yeah,
it's obviously some, some great, great stuff to be learned about there. So, um, yeah, good,
good to, good to have it. And I think that was the last episode that we need to review for this
month. Of course, indeed. Uh, which brings us back to, uh, comments, uh, from running,
uh, so HPR 3060 by me, running a local IMAP server for a tenant installs a courier IMAP
locally to have a local backup of mail. Do you want to read the comment? Yep. So it's from
somebody, uh, entitled nothing in particular. This comment has nothing to do with the content,
but after reading the links you go to keep this section spammed free, I really wanted to appreciate
the effort that goes into this. This is a great website, very grateful to have access like this for
free without ads and trackers. May you live long. To which I replied,
that various suspicious comments. Hi, somebody, thanks for your comment. That is exactly what I,
I expect a spammer to say smiley face. As you point out, all the comments are moderated. All
the links are checked by humans. We strip out all the HTML. If any spammers are checking us out,
then feel free to do a show about yourself, your industry, or any topic that you may find interesting.
We also check our shows for spam. Yes. That was, uh, that comment, we get a lot of comments spam
in. Uh, a lot less now than we did before, but we still get comments spamming. And occasionally,
we will get people probing to see if, uh, you know, uh, probing to see what sort of defenses we have
up, uh, anti, anti-spamwise. So they'll, they'll post grace, uh, great blog or something,
you know, easy giveaway and we know straight away. And they'll put that on older shows, um, that
were kind of popular. And so it won't raise suspicion and usually on the show that's got already
got a few comments. So yeah, this one sent my antennas off, I must say, but feel free, somebody to
come back and, uh, and comment, but yet do a show that will be better. Yeah. It was surprise.
And we also have the thing where just if you are commenting on shows, the shows that are in
the regular feed, don't require anything more than, there's one question, uh, what does the pee
in Hacker Public Radio Stanford? So public, um, but if you go comment on shows older than that,
or shows that have been released and are in the future queue, um, so you can also subscribe to
feed as they're coming in, which if you wish to do, um, and you spot, uh, some people do so that
they can spot help us, uh, spot issues before it goes to the main feed. Uh, if you comment on either
of those, you get some additional questions, which you need to answer. And you also need a
reformed text body, which needs to be filled in, uh, proving to us that you're not a spammer.
And some of those have, uh, have a very, very interesting and funny memory laugh.
Yes, yes, it's quite nice to see that. I'm now collecting them as well, actually, as by the by,
just, uh, might do a show about those at some point. Uh, what else do we do, Dave?
Any other business? Well, we look at the mailing list, but there's sort of look for this,
there's nothing there, apart from the one I sent announcing this show. Desperate for help, Dave.
I missed one. Not what do we miss? No, no, no, no. I usually, uh, open this on the day, a lot of the
other tabs I keep for this have opened last month, but uh, there's a, there's just my HBR community
news and anxiety message. Is that all in the, in the list? Yeah. Yeah. So do you want to go through
the RV? Yep. Okay. So there are a few things here. Um, first one is about podcatchers, which I think
is still the generic term for things around your phone that collect podcasts and stuff. Um, and it
seems that they don't, in general, show the author of episodes. Um, so, and, and it's an author
field in RSS and Atom feeds and, and not show this field is intended to just show the author details,
it might be several authors or, or one or whatever. Um, with HBR shows, it contains an obfuscated
email address and a name and I give an example of your, your details. Um, the lack of this
information means knowing who created a given HBR show, difficult to determine before you listen
to it. Um, the question has been raised as to whether we could include the author details at the
start of the show notes themselves, uh, to overcome this thing. Uh, comments are requested from
the community as to whether this would be a use for addition. As in you're asking right now here
on this show. Yep. So, so what you think? Don't blow. And I think it comes from most podcasts now
are by somebody and it's on, you know, murderousy rule type thing and it's always the same author.
So the author of the podcast is, you know, it's not serialized in the same way as blogging should
be. So it's just liasonous on the part of, uh, pod catchers or, um, or whatever. It's
surprising really because he, you know, this, this, that's what there's a whole bunch of elements
that you could be showing, but the most useful one that's not shown is, is one of the most useful
ones is, is the author. Yeah, but if that's the same for every episode, why would you take it?
Take the argument. Yeah. Yeah. The more fields you put in is the more testing that you need to do
on the war, um, chance of errors, etc, etc. It would be no, it's, it's all according to my
club. It's not only does it beep, but it's also wrong. Um, so you can take the castles and microwave
that's funny enough. So next one is the corresponding source. It was just to put a comment in here,
but we've already, uh, looked at the show and, um, spoken about it and stuff. So it's really,
it was really to do it. I don't know why we put that in. Did we, uh, did we agree to do that?
I can't remember. Yeah. Well, you seem to do that sort of stuff. It's, uh, just, give a guess.
Yeah. If you, if you're looking back at the notes and you see it, then that's useful.
So the other, the next thing was HPR changes where we've, we've changed the correspondent
pages, which show particular host, which tends to be called correspondent in our software,
lists their shows. And for some reason, other, we'd omitted to include the profile, which is the
thing that's been uploaded by the host, it tells you about them and how to contact them and stuff
like that. Now, it was present on the previous site, but not on the static site. So we've added that
with issue one eight one on the, on the get site, which has been closed. And, uh, if you go and
look at host 30, Ken Fallon, I'm important at you again. Um, you can see the, uh, the profile there.
So it could be the progress or a bit of progress. Maybe there's a lot more things that we're
doing, but we've made some progress. And the last thing I just added because I can learn to
meet to it. Yes, I don't think it was. Um, looks like Ogcamp is returning. Um, there are plans to
hold Ogcamp 2024 in Manchester, UK. Okay. So you think of the other man, another Manchester, uh,
this year, after an absence of five years, it'll be on October the 12th and 13th at the Manchester
Conference Centre, which when I looked it up, Manchester Conference Centre is lots of places,
some owned by the university, um, and all around the centre of Manchester. This one is in the
pendulum hotel near Picadilly station where the last Ogcamp was held. So we're going back.
And that was not a bad place, actually, it was quite a good venue, I thought. So, uh, so,
yep, I've never been to Manchester. You were there. No? Already? Yeah, we went to Ogcamp.
This was a little before them, before the pandemic. We had a, we had a table. We had, um,
Benny and, uh, Tim, to me, and stuff. Was that just that? I thought that was a little
yeah. Oh, no, it wasn't. It was not just a, uh, got off on the wrong station. I thought,
I ended up this because, you know, it's all like, you complete an income group. And, uh, yeah,
you can, I've linked to the Ogcamp website, which hasn't got a lot on at the moment, but it's
going to contain news as things start to develop. So, uh, and it's also, there's also, uh,
social media links as well, which you can find on the website. So it was pretty cool. Yeah,
I'm tempted to go. Yeah. I, I have, I have mixed feelings because I'm a bit uh,
hampered in my brain. Yeah. Okay. A little too bad. But I'm going to see if I can, uh,
who in the series do? Do you? Do rise on up within our hero control.
I'm going to try doing a bit more walking because they say you can undo arthritic knees by doing sort of regular walking program, so I'm going to give that shot.
Good.
So, and Sid, well that's it.
So much for our short podcast, but anyway, it is what it is.
Yeah.
It's going to be an hour.
Very good.
Anyway, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio Radio Radio Radio Radio Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and our sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
