Episode: 4487
Title: HPR4487: Is AI autistic?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4487/hpr4487.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 14:56:28

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4487 for Tuesday 14 October 2025.
Today's show is entitled Is AI Autistic?
It is hosted by Antoin and is about 9 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is a personal opinion on commercial LLMs.
I believe that God is the one that gives us the gifts, the power to do anything, even to
talk with a friend, even to share something you like it to discover or to learn.
So I thank God for being here.
Being able to share this show with the title you have already heard at the beginning.
It was inspired by Arthur 72, Dad in episode 4454, AI is a trap, shared his opinions.
I share it too.
I hope it is as pleasant to you as it's pleasant to me to hear it show.
I have the opportunity to hear.
This is a talk for Hacker Public Radio about characteristics of LLM and how you can
use them for your best.
I will share five of them.
First characteristic, LLMs, large language models are designed to always give an answer
that convinces.
Dad does not mean they are right.
Use it for the best.
Don't trust the answer.
If you didn't know the answer beforehand using an AI to obtain a better or faster result,
but for really receiving the answer, then verify it independently.
Second characteristic, commercial LLMs, many times, do not think too much in the face of
simple and short prompts.
Dad's a barrier, probably, against wasting resources.
How to use it for the best?
Two things, first, show the AI what you have found by your own, and proceed to tell what
exactly you need help with.
On the basis of what you were already able to think.
Second, learn two.
Follow-up.
To have a conversation.
Suggested follow-ups are not good, prefer instead to talk to the AI as a real conversation,
to get confirmation of what you need, or contrast something you disagree with, or to obtain
an example that may clarify if it's true or false, etc.
When Dad is a characteristic that resembles autism a bit, so the name of the show, should
not like when someone wants something without doing any effort to obtain it.
So you also do not feel like doing it for them.
Someone comes to you asking something, but has not even such a dictionary before, just
comes with empty hands, wanting a world from you, AI's, generally also don't like that.
And you want to obtain good results with a soul ample, with a soul vast, prompt, with
a soul vast input without knowing yourself what you really need, punctually, specifically.
Very characteristic, without the long-gating anymore.
LOMs are not accountable.
In general, most AI's, you don't always know all the sources for the information given.
And yes, they need, resources, they need, sources for the information, they can't invent
something new, unless it's mixing words without knowing exactly.
So what they have is from the source that they have drink enough.
That's what I say.
They do not know what they are telling, nor they understand the value of the sources.
And you can expect different outputs for the same inputs.
AI's are not deterministic.
Simply saying they are quiz machines to generate content, they don't, cognitively, cognitively,
understand.
But that convinces humans, because they use human content and patterns.
So if you use AI for something, especially any serious purpose, remember, the result
you get is of your responsibility.
Don't expect to be excused for your words, because I was helped by AI, they did it.
You don't have these excuse.
What is for you, you can have any source for your task.
But you are responsible for characteristic, AI have a pattern.
We can suspect with some degree of certainness, certitude, how to say that we can suspect
that something was generated by AI, and no one likes to be answered by one.
If that possibility was not explicitly told, what to do about it?
I suggest you don't use AI generated content with someone you estimate, or for answering
a student, if you work with them, etc.
It is rude, fifth, fifth characteristic, and the last, LOMs can give great results.
With less effort, if effort, then you need to apply with no machine at your site, with
no help at all.
But the AI have done is by exclusion, not at what you have done.
Use it for your best.
You do not learn if someone does the job for you.
For tasks, you know well, and what to accelerate or remove repetitive steps, you may count
on AI, or better, with a count on a specific software, that can be programmed and give
accountable results, because you know exactly what is being done with the input, contrary
to the AI, that is somewhat random, or at least not accountable, not deterministic.
But for the intellectual work, if you like to think, if you are good on written expression,
the LOM may give or may get passable results in less time, okay, at the price of removing
from you the chance to dedicate yourself to the comprehension and production.
So it's not always a matter of producing like a king, effectiveness.
It may be important to satisfy what you value as meaningful, learning, maybe, or feeling
the satisfaction of the conclusion, so that you can sustainably follow a routine that
is not a pain on the eye, that is an expression to mean something that causes disgust.
So that's all folks, for today, let me know if you'd like more content on this, possibly
AI, or Arthur 72, or even you, could bring some more opinion on AI, if it is of your interest.
And one was here, bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and
our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
