Episode: 4509
Title: HPR4509: HPR Beer Garden 5 - Heferweisen
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4509/hpr4509.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:14:17

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4509 for Thursday the 13th of November 2025.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Beer Garden 5 Heifer Wiesen.
It is part of the series' beverages.
It is hosted by Kettie, and is about 35 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Dave and Paul talk about Heifer Wiesen.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio, and this is the Hacker
Public Radio Beer Garden Episode 5.
My name is Dave, and yeah, well it wouldn't normally be me introducing this, but unfortunately
my erstwhile colleague, Kevin, is currently down with a flurry-coldy type thing, so he
has taken a pass for this one-night's episode.
But we are joined, as we were going to be anyway, by a special guest who heard out one of
our previous episodes in the thought, yeah, I don't want to get on on this.
So Paul, welcome.
Hi, good evening, Dave, and yeah, it's good to be here, thank you very much for inviting
me.
No, no problems at all.
I suppose the obvious question to start with is, why are you here?
What prompted you to reach out to us?
I enjoyed the first episodes of The Beer Garden, and I think it's a fantastic idea, and
it's nice to hear different opinions about different types of beers.
And actually, I commented on a post that Kevin put on Mastered on, and following some discussion,
we ended up with a point where he said, why don't you come and join us?
And we can talk a little bit about Vice Beer.
I should probably give some background as to why I know a little bit about Vice Beer,
because I would normally call it Heifer-Vitancem.
My wife is German, so I started travelling to Germany in 1990 for work.
I used to work for Bosch, I worked for Bosch for 10 years, and the factory in Cardiff,
the machines were being manufactured in Stuttgart.
So I travelled over to Stuttgart with my colleagues, and we spent several months there.
And obviously, Stuttgart is in the South of Germany, and the South of Germany is famous
for its Vice and Beer.
I met my wife or future wife while I was in Germany, and so as a result, after we got married
a couple of years later, we would travel back to Germany on a regular basis to see family,
and obviously that was an opportunity to enjoy the Vice and Beer while I was there.
And some of the other German beer as well, but in the South generally, particularly in
the summers, I think you and Kevin alluded to in the last episode.
The Vice and Beer is very much a summer evening, warm, barmy weather.
It's a very nice drink just to sit and relax and enjoy.
And would I go as far as to call it a session beer?
I think session in Germany is maybe not the sort of thing that you see in the way it is
in the UK.
However, yes, you can drink Vice and Beer all evening, definitely.
Well, the one that I've got for this episode is most definitely one that you could last
all evening with.
So I suppose I should ask you, given that Kevin and I discussed this on the very first
episode of The Beer Garden, is Vice and Beer your favourite style of beer?
That's a difficult question.
I think if you were to say to me what's your favourite type of music, I would say that
depends.
And I think the same thing happens for beer, probably because different beer for me works
in different places.
So a nice winter evening in front of the fire may be a nice port or something with a
bit more body, a summer barbecue, maybe a vice beer or something like that.
I don't tend to be a lager drinker, to be honest, tend to stick with ails and ruby ails
or darker ails, but I do like kind of honey ails as well.
But if I was drinking in Germany, I would drink Vice and Beer and from time to time I'll
drink it here as well.
So it's a fairly popular one, yeah, it's fairly popular, but not necessarily my favourite
at under all circumstances.
Right, it's a really good call out actually, that yeah, it really does depend on when and
where and the likes and I think Kevin may have mentioned this either on the last episode
or possibly the episode before when we were discussing, what were we discussing?
There was something that was particularly heavy or heavier than something like a lager
or a light IPA session IPA or something like that.
And we were talking about whether we would drink something like that in a hot country
in the afternoon when the sun's about to go down, you wouldn't be sat there with an
imperial stout, for example, but by the same token, if it was really cold weather and you
wanted to warm up, you wouldn't have a lager.
So it's all dependent on, yeah, so it's a really good call out.
Right, so what have you brought with you?
So I obviously, I listened to the episode four and you both had a, what I would call
a Heller's Haphevitesum.
So mom was a Francis Carter and mom was an Erdinger, I think, yeah.
Now those two brands are very, very popular overseas.
The other one you'll find sometimes is a Paulana, that's the other German Bavarian beer.
I brought this evening an Erdinger Donkel Haphevitesum.
So Haphevitesum comes in three different types.
You have the Heller's Haphevitesum, which is the one that you drank last time, which
is I would say the most common.
A Donkel Haphevitesum is a dark, a much darker beer, as you'll see when I pour it.
And then Christal Haphevitesum is like a Heller's Haphevitesum where this, the yeast and the
wheat proteins have been filtered out.
So you see someone drinking a Christal Haphevitesum, it looks like they're drinking something
like a lager, you know, it's a clear, a light colored drink.
Often with the Christal Vitesum, people put a slice of lemon in the top, which is definitely
not my taste.
You know, kind of summer refreshment, maybe that's what they do.
So I brought a Donkel Haphevitesum, honestly speaking, I don't normally drink Donkel Haphevitesum,
but I thought in the spirit of the beer garden, I would try this and see how I feel about
it compared to the normal Heller's Haphevitesum that I would drink.
Excellent.
Why not?
Experimentation in beer is one of the joys of it.
Indeed.
What did you bring, Dave?
Before we get onto that, I want to just want to clarify something, because I understand
as stood, potentially incorrectly, the reason of Haphevitesum was that the yeast was still
present, and that's what gave it its hazy appearance.
So if you then filter out the wheat and yeast to make a Christal Haphevitesum, is that not
a contradiction in terms?
Obviously, Haphevitesum is a wheat beer, so it's still fermented with the same ingredients
that you have for the Heller's Haphevitesum.
There's still a lot of wheat in the mix that goes into the beer.
The yeast doesn't have to be in the beer for it to be a Heller's Haphevitesum.
I think it's the ingredients that you brew it with that make it the Heller's Haphevitesum.
It's just that the normal expectation is that it's fermented with a tertiary bottle
fermentation, and there's still yeast present.
Now, if you go in Germany, actually you'll get Heller's Haphevitesum draft, it doesn't
have to be in a bottle.
Normally people will be drinking Heller's Haphevitesum, but say, dunkel is another option,
Crystal is another, I would say less popular option, but it is still there for those
at once.
Understood.
That's an education for me, so I appreciate that.
Thank you.
I don't know much about beers.
I know what I like, and I'm willing to learn new things, but I wouldn't say I was in
any way educated in me.
Please don't consider me an expert.
I know you know more than I do, so on this at least.
Anyway, to answer your earlier question, I looked at this earlier on and actually realised
what it was.
I have got here, and I'm going to probably butch the pronunciation, a chuffa-hoffa.
Ah, chuffa-hoffa.
Try me the ten.
Sorry, chuffa-hoffa.
Chuffa-hoffa.
Chuffa-hoffa.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh.
I'm allowed to say chuffa-hoffa.
Chuffa-hoffa.
Chuffa-hoffa.
Chuffa-hoffa.
Heller's Haphevitesum.
Yes.
Yeah.
But a big banner underneath it, grapefruit.
Yes.
And I looked at that when I saw it on the shelf in Tesco and thought that looks really
nice.
I was thinking it will be hints of notes of it.
Okay.
And then I looked at the side of it.
It's two and a half percent, and it says it's a wheat beer mix, a mixed beer beverage
consisting of 50% chuffa-hoffa.
Did you say chuffa-hoffa?
Wheat beer and 50% grapefruit drink.
Okay.
So it's basically, it's a mixer.
I would actually say, the other thing about heller's Haphevitesum, which is very interesting.
Most of the companies that I know Erdinger do, they make a alcohol-free heller's Haphevitesum.
And you kind of think, why would you drink alcohol-free beer?
Actually, it's quite refreshing, and it's actually taste okay.
And it's marketed as well as like an isotonic drink.
So it's almost market like a health drink.
You know, you can have it on your hot summer day.
You can have an isotonic.
I don't know if the chuffa-hoffa is something similar, but do you like fruity beers, generally?
Are you a fruity beer lover?
I would say generally, yes.
There are some beers that I think are well over the time.
Ironically, I enjoy a sour as well.
Some of the fruity soures really go down well, but they're not ones you can spend the
evening with, you have one, and then go on to something a little less harsh.
But yeah, I would say definitely I do enjoy the fruity styles.
Given the grapefruit, I would say probably the closest I've ever had to a grapefruit beer
before is broodog's Elvis juice.
I think there is actually grapefruit in the brew, but it's not overly grapefruity.
There's essence of grapefruit from it.
It's not a smacky in the face kind of grapefruit.
Whereas this, just by the description, I think is going to be slightly different.
It's going to be a lot stronger in terms of the citrusy flavour.
But yes, I do.
I do enjoy a fruity beer.
The other thing I did bring, and you can see it, Dave, of course, the viewers can't
actually do have a heifervites and glass.
Oh, very nice.
When you watch them pouring the beer in Germany, the professional bar staff are quite amazing,
because they can pour two bottles of heifervites at the same time.
And the way they do it, and I've actually put a towel on my desk, so I'm not sure if
I dare try it on air or not.
But the bottle will go into the glass, and the neck of the bottle will be under the top
of the liquid, and you kind of draw it out, and what happens is the beer comes out of
the bottle and it draws the head in.
And then, as I think Kevin mentioned in the last episode, before you've poured it all
out, you stop, and you swirl the bottle to make sure that any yeast stuck on the side
is released.
And then you can pour it in.
And if you do it right, and looking at your pictures on the previous episode, I think
you both did it right, because you should get a reasonable head on the beer.
So if I mean this glass is a half liter glass, it's got narrow base, and it's probably
about 10 inches tall, and it's a half liter glass of, and there's about, probably five
centimeters gap from the top of the half liter mark to the top of the thing, and the head
will normally fill that gap completely.
Nice.
So, yeah, I don't think you have that same with the grapefruit juice, but shall I give it
a go? Shall I go for it, please?
Let's see if we're going to get a sound effect on what I don't know.
Okay, let's see what happens.
This is where I make, I don't make a complete mess of this.
Oh, okay, I'm with you.
So you see, I'm pulling it up, and the beer's going in, and the head is being, and then
take it out and give it a swirl, and then pour the remainder in, like that.
So you end up with something like that.
I should probably take a photograph of it for the, yes, please.
For the stone hoots.
That's how they pull it.
And when the, the bar staff do it, they'll knock two, two crown caps off.
Their glasses will be lying on their side, and they'll tip the bottles and kind of pick
the glasses up, and then do two at a time as they pull it out.
I suppose you have to have a little bit of show boating as well.
Yeah.
As a bartender.
The other thing is amazing in Germany.
And I, I, obviously, I have to be careful because I've been going for many, many years.
I haven't been going to bars so often in my Latte years.
But you used to go and drink all evening in the bar, and the only way you would,
they would know what you've bought is because they would mark with a pen on a beer
mat on the desk where you're drinking.
And at the end of the evening, you pay for all the drink you've had in the evening.
So we would go, we would go to the bar in Stuttgart.
And there would be maybe, you know, you imagine a bunch of blokes going to Germany
from Wales to go on a business trip.
We spend the evening on a Saturday evening in the bar and we'd drink quite a bit of beer.
And we would literally have a beer mat covered in little marks.
And then at the end of the evening, she would top them up and, and pay.
You don't go to the bar to get your beer.
The bar staff move around and they will, you can kind of ask them to get it for you.
And they'll bring the beer and then you, the marquee card and they've ended the evening
you settle up, you pay.
Apparently the bar staff are financially responsible for the money.
So they, the bar basically track him what the bar staff release and the bar staff
then get paid by the clients.
And I don't know, I mean, obviously they'll get their salary from the bar as well.
The trust is incredible.
You imagine the UK if you could drink or leaving and then pay at the end of the evening.
I would imagine a lot of people would be, would be running.
Yes, yes.
Yeah, that was, that was quite a surprise.
You would have a great evening.
Sit under the horse chestnut trees in the beer garden and barmy summer evenings,
you know, 25, 28 degrees, drinking, pay for the vitamins.
That sounds like a really good thing.
Yeah.
I suppose the dangerous side of it is that you're not actually getting up to go and get
your beers.
So therefore that hurdle of saying, well, I suppose I'm going to go and get another
round in.
Yeah.
It's removed.
Yes.
It's like these Brazilian steak houses where you all you have is a card on the table
that tells you whether you want more food or not.
And they'll just come bring in it to you.
Yeah.
It's like that, but with beer.
Yeah.
I mean, it sounds like my kind of place.
Yes.
Anyway, please go for the taste.
As you can, well, as you can see, but just for the purposes of the podcast,
it's very dark.
Very dark.
You can't see through the glass.
It's a reason my head on it and it has claps a little bit and it will probably
go down a bit further.
Let's see.
It looks quite murky.
Yes.
It is quite murky, a little bit dirty, even, but is it quite, what's the word,
dank?
Smells nice.
Smells like a Heifer Wiesen.
When the last show, did you chill your beer before you drank it?
Kevin wouldn't have done because he's quite a purist.
He doesn't chill any of his beers.
He'd has them at just below room temperature.
This one I took out of the fridge about two hours ago.
So it's still chilled, but it's not cruel.
Right.
Heifer Wiesen, you drink chilled.
Right.
It's like a lager, you drink it like lager, you drink it chilled.
It is top brood because that was the other comment you made, I think,
at the last episode versus bottom brood.
Most beer in the UK is top brood.
Most Heifer Wiesen is top brood.
Bottom brood is really lager.
So do you know where the lager term comes from?
I do not, but I'm pretty sure I'm about to.
Bottom brood beer is brood colder temperatures.
Now in German, lager is storeroom or seller.
So if you're brewing lager, you brew it in your coolest part of the property,
which would be the seller or maybe a cold store, something like that.
And it's fermentation where the yeast basically settles to the bottom.
And obviously this type of beer and ails, that type of thing is top brood.
So the yeast sits on top and is brewed between, I think, something like 18 and 30 degrees.
Whereas lager is probably 8 to 10 degrees.
That's sort of a temperature.
So it's a different process and different yeast.
I'm going to taste this before it goes off too far.
So go for it.
Well, that's very nice.
It's quite tangy and it's, I would say it's a bit more yeasty flavour than I would expect for a Heller's Heifer Wiesen.
I guess for, I should really have both here, shouldn't I?
So I can try them both.
Because then we could really do a comparison test.
But I think from, I mean, I haven't had a Heifer Wiesen for probably a few months.
But for me, this is a little bit more yeasty.
It's quite a tangy flavour.
Now, the tang, because it's a, it's a common feature of all wheat beers.
And that's coming from the yeast, is it?
I don't know to be honest, Dave.
I don't know, but it is, it is quite a tangy flavour.
Maybe it is the yeast.
That's quite nice.
That's quite nice.
For me, it's still a drink, you'd probably drink on a warm summer's evening.
You know, I think it's not a, not a winter drink.
Even though it's dark.
Even though it's a bit dark, yes, but I don't know.
I should really have done some research about why it's darker.
I don't know if it's in malt or wheat to make it darker.
This is where the notes from, from Kevin may come in useful.
Sorry, carry on.
And I'll do some digging.
So the other thing I thought I would mention, have you heard of Reinheitzkabord?
No.
Right.
So Germany had back in, it's an old, and I forgive, please forgive me any German
listeners to this podcast.
And if you have more information and want to make a show, we'd love to hear it.
Reinheitzkabord is the German beer purity laws.
And they were, they were brought out something like three or 400 years ago.
And basically specified that you beer can only contain water, barley, and hops.
I was aware of this.
I just didn't realise the name yet.
And you'll see it sometimes on the bottle, it'll say German purity law,
or Reinheitzkabord or, or Gabort or something like that.
What I did discover, which I didn't know is it actually is no longer a law.
It's been replaced by the provisional German beer law, which now allows
wheat molds and cane sugar in beer production.
So technically speaking,
writes and beer does not fit into the Reinheitzkabord.
It doesn't fit into German, the German purity laws because it has wheat in rather than barley.
But it is permitted under the provisional German beer law.
But you will often see marketing blurb from beer companies in Germany saying they work to
Reinheitzkabord, so they don't put anything else in their beer.
I guess for me, because I spend three and a half years living in Brussels.
Belgium beer is another case entirely.
Belgium, the Belgians put all sorts in their beer.
You know, they're quite happy to put more sugar in.
They're quite happy to put different flavours in.
I mean, I asked about fruity beer earlier on.
There's a good collection of Belgium beer, which is very fruity.
The other type of beer, which you'll see in Belgium is like Lembic type beers,
where they're actually the yeast is inoculated through contact with the atmosphere.
So most beer brewing methods, you basically boil everything to kill off all the natural yeast,
and put your brewing yeast in to give you what you want out of the beer.
The Lembic brewery, they pump it up to a copper tank in the roof space,
which is vented into the atmosphere and leave it there for a couple of days to be inoculated by the yeast,
and then bring it down and ferment it in the barrels.
So that's another topic for another show, I guess, Belgium beer,
because there's a Belgium beer for every single taste, I would say.
Yeah.
Yeah, so the German purity law has kind of guided German beer making for the like,
at least the last couple of centuries, and it means there shouldn't be anything else in your beer,
apart from those key ingredients.
Right.
So I'm just looking through the notes that Kaby gave me for this episode,
which I haven't needed to use to be fair.
Until now, and he does mention the Rhine Heistkabort in terms of the ghost style of
wheat beer, because it was one of the few, it says here, it's one of the few German beers
brewed outside the Rhine Heistkabort law, the restricted the ingredients in the beer.
So that actually does make sense.
He also mentions the, the Lembic ones as well.
And the wife and I are going to Brussels in December for our wedding anniversary.
And we have been told that it is basically one beer festival all year round.
So I'm really looking forward to it.
So yeah, you need to go to Delirium in the middle.
We're having told yeah, I should make you a list action.
There is a Lambic and if one of the traditional lambic breweries near Garçon trial,
and they do tours and you can go and see the whole process and sample the beers at the end.
So it's a bit like a whiskey tour, but with lambic beer instead.
Oh, nice.
That's definitely what we're not going for the beers, but I think we will definitely.
Well, I didn't say we weren't going to have beer.
Are you staying in Brussels or would you go to anywhere else in Belgium?
I mean, how long are you there for?
Only a few days.
So we've got four days off.
We'll be Eurostarring on day one, two and three will be in Brussels or thereabouts.
And then four will be coming back on the Eurostar again.
Yeah.
We haven't got an itinerary yet.
I'm sure we will do.
But I think what we'll probably end up doing as we do with most holidays we go on is we'll get there.
Then we'll work out what we're doing.
Yeah.
Sometimes you can't book so close some attractions.
If you don't book them kind of a couple of weeks and advance, you can't get in.
So I think that's okay in in Brussels for most things, but it's just I would definitely have a look.
The atonium is quite interesting.
You can actually go inside it and all the way up the top and it come all the way down through the different expeditions.
Definitely book it in advance and I say in advance that we can be an hour in advance.
But do it online and then you miss the cues going in.
Yeah, what I'll do, Dave, I'll ask if there's anything else I can think of and I'll get the name of that lambic brew in.
I'll send you an email and with the details and so on.
Thank you very much.
I thought about it.
Should probably get Caroline on this show.
Caroline is only a recent beer enjoyer.
We went to a beer festival in Leeds.
As soon as they could reopen after COVID, I think it was 21 and we went to a beer festival.
And I'll tell you, social distancing during a beer festival is not the easiest thing on the world, particularly two or three hours into the session.
If you know what I mean, but it was fantastic and we go both got sufficiently belated.
Anyway, I would like to introduce you and the listeners to today's glass.
I don't normally choose a special glass.
I tend to use my Northern Monk one, but this one is special to me.
So this is the art of Harris brewery glass, Mark two.
So I got this when I ordered a box of beer from the art of Harris brewery, which is where Kevin is from.
And I use this for absolutely everything.
It had an accident in the washing up bowl over there.
Yeah, I was gutted at least one tier was shed and I told my mum that I had this glass and I broke it.
And she got in touch with the art of Harris brewery and arranged the delivery of a replacement.
And along with it came this lovely drinks coaster, which I have never and will never use.
Oh, hang on.
Yeah, there it is in which the owner of the brewery wrote a lovely little message on the back saying
Merry Christmas Butterfingers.
Very good.
So this this glass does mean a lot to me because it was generally born out of love.
My mum and the art of Harris brewery, both conspired to get me this.
So that is what I shall be enjoying the chauffeur, for something like that anyway.
So let's go for the go for the poor.
I won't get the whole thing in the glass because the glass is only a 30.
Yes, I would say it probably is actually.
It's a half pipe marker on it, but there's a gap above.
So so let's go for the to get sound effect in the poor.
Oh, that's ahead.
Whoops.
Okay, not proud of that poor.
It's a good color.
It's a gorgeous color.
That is that is amazing.
That is that is almost orange.
But it's kind of like the dark orange you dissociate with, oh, I can't think.
Almost like a blood orange, orange.
It's yeah, it's almost like a like a hazy ginger beer kind of color.
And that is full of grapefruit.
It really is.
I'm going to give that a second to settle down and then I'll try it.
Yeah.
Like I say, this is a two and a half percent wheat beer mix, half wheat beer and half grapefruit drink, whatever that means.
So grapefruit drink will be a mix of juice.
I think it said five and a half percent grapefruit juice.
So presumably that means 2.75% grapefruit juice in the final product.
So here we go.
That's quite dangerous.
That is incredibly dangerous because that is chugable.
All right, I could, if this was in a pint glass, it could quite easily go in a couple of gulps.
I mean, it's two and a half percent.
It's not so so bad that you can.
But it has a beautiful, the wheat beer is there, but it is quite subtle, which you would kind of expect.
The grapefruit is there.
It's not in your face.
It's quite sweet, which I would imagine is going to be from the grapefruit mixer in it.
If this was handed to me with no preamble whatsoever, I wouldn't have necessarily said that this was a beer
because it is more like a, I suppose like a bitter grapefruit.
I mean, grapefruit is bitter anyway, but there's nothing in here that says this is a,
I don't know, maybe there is actually, there is, there is a bit of a bit of a beery taste in there,
and particularly the tanginess of the wheat beer itself.
I think in Germany, you're allowed to drink beer from the age of 16.
Is that a German specific thing or do you think is that a European union?
Well, we never had it in this country and we were in the European Union.
So I think it's a German specific thing.
I think you can drink, you can drink kind of beer as regarded as a low alcohol drink,
but you can't drink spirits until you're older.
I think that's be 18 for spirits.
Having chosen this beer for tonight, I'm really quite pleased with it.
I think even the wife would enjoy this.
In fact, I think that's one of my kids that don't like beer.
Apparently, all beer tastes like vinegar to my second child.
How old is your second child?
18. Oh, okay.
Because that's normally an attitude that changes when you get to about 15 or 16, I think.
Well, my eldest, who's 20, well, he was 20 on Monday.
He enjoys a good beer. He enjoys equality beer.
In fact, I sacrificed one of my imperial's 12% in a can to him.
And he was like, this is nice.
So he has the appreciation for it.
And he's started to join us when we go to the annual beer festival in Sheffield.
But every time I get a beer, I'll offer it around the house.
See if anybody wants to try it.
He's my 12 year old.
And he just like looks at it and says, now you're right.
But Ethan, my middle child, he will try it and he'll go taste like vinegar.
But I don't think he would be this one.
I might have to get him to try it.
Do you think it's along the lines of, I mean, it's not obviously Hoot, which is not me,
but Hoot was when it first came out, was to kind of alcoholic.
Well, alcohol pop, wasn't it really?
Yes.
The danger of alcohol pops and any drink that has red bull as a mixer in it is that they
don't taste like alcohol, which was probably the draw for them because it kind of opened
up the world of alcohol to people that know what to do with it, slightly concerning.
Yeah.
I think with this, it probably does the same thing.
From a flavor perspective, this has got a full of flavor.
It's got a lovely grapefruity citrusy punch to it, which I really appreciate.
To somebody who is expecting a beer, I think they would be quite disappointed by it
because a two and a half percent, there's not going to be a lot of character to the beer
itself.
The grapefruit is doing the heavy lifting on this, most definitely.
Do you think a refreshing drink in the middle of the day in the summer?
Oh, definitely, yeah, definitely.
This would sit alongside the fruit punch quite nicely.
If you go into a bar in Germany and ask for a Radler, you'll get a basically a
Lager and it was like a Lager Shandy in a way, Lager and that's probably two and a half
percent by the time it's blended down and quite refreshing for warm summer's day.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
Yeah, I think this would be lovely for a summer's evening.
The sun's going down, barbecue, this would fit in absolutely perfectly.
Yeah, really impressed.
So with your Uncle Vyson, how would you score this?
We're doing a scoring out of 10.
I've actually created an untapped account the last few days as well, because I'd normally
just drink my beer.
I don't actually keep records and so on.
But so I would give it, I mean, I would give it eight out of 10, I think.
But again, as I said earlier, I would qualify that by saying I would want to be in the
right circumstance, the right place and the right weather to drink it.
But I would, yeah, I would drink.
I mean, I've normally asked for a hell of a Vyson, but if someone offered me this,
I wouldn't say no.
Excellent.
I'm going to have to see if I can get myself one of those because that does look really
nice, but it is slightly masquerading itself as a beer that should be heavier than it is.
Yeah, it's 5.3.
I didn't say that when I first opened the box, but it's 5.3 by volume.
So, yes, it's reasonable.
I guess that's about the same as the hell of a Vyson, you drank last week.
Yeah, that was a 5.3, I can't remember now.
Yeah, it was about the same.
I was interested in the last episode, you talked about Vyson Bach, which you said,
so I had a look when I, when I, when I, when the Vyson Bach is between seven and nine and
a half percent.
So I will have a look for a Vyson Bach when I'm out shopping in Germany.
Sorry for the silence.
Ethan is just coming to try it.
What's your, your opinion?
It's the verdict of that's concerning because it's grapefruit.
Sorry, he said he was expecting it to taste like vinegar, but it was, it actually tasted
a orange. I get it, you know, such as he's different and stuff.
But I mean, if somebody gave you that, would you drink the whole thing?
Isn't that the first beer I've ever offered you to try that you've liked?
Wow.
Oh, I suppose it would do.
It has a beer after Tati's, after Tati's, he says, so I have to last then, Dave.
What would you score yours?
Well, this is difficult because what was I expecting?
So when I bought this, it was the only one of two wheat beers that were actually in Tesco.
The other one was the one that I had in the last episode and this one week we kept.
I think Kevin got one of these as well, but he looked at it.
Sorry, it was 2.5% thought, not sure about this.
So I hope he'll, he'll listen to, well, he'll listen to this when he edits this episode.
And hopefully he'll try it for himself.
But if I'm treating this purely as a wheat beer, then I don't think I would score it
particularly highly.
If I was viewing this as somebody has given me something and I'm not too sure what it is,
and I've tried it, then I would score it really highly.
So I'm going to land somewhere in the middle.
And I think given the fact that I would probably go out and buy this again,
purely for the session ability of it to start with, but also just the pure flavor
the flavor is is divine.
It's absolutely gorgeous.
I'm probably going to score this a nine.
I don't think I would get much of agreement from Kevin on this, but I don't want to preempt him.
So I will give him the opportunity to respond to it himself.
I'll post this on on on tap once we finished here.
I have taken a photograph and I will score it as 4.5 on on on tap to is an equivalent.
But no, really nice, really nice, but I'm going to have to go out and see if I can find
some more wheat pears locally or go to one of the beer websites and try and order something.
I did have a look, there's a specialist beer shop in Chester, but they didn't have
anything other than they had Paul Anna, which is, I said, the third big company.
And they had actually did have the sherfer offer as well.
But they didn't have any other pay for vitamins.
When you go to Germany, nearly every brewery has their own.
And you know, you go into a village, go into the local bar.
It'll be the local brewery that's making the beer.
And but the flavor is pretty consistent in my experience.
I'm sure there's people out there that would listen to this and go.
You're talking over Tosh and you need to.
You need to go further on wider and because some are better than others.
But anyway, in my opinion, it's all drinkable.
It's all good beer.
And I've never felt how I'd rather have a Paul Anna over a herdinger or, you know,
this, I've never had that kind of preference.
Okay.
I think when you're in, when you're in Brussels, you'll be able to find some more German beer
there as well as the Belgian beer.
Right.
That makes sense because it's obviously going to be easier to get hold of being
neighbours and all.
No, awesome.
All right.
Is there anything else you wanted to add?
No, I think that's fantastic.
And yeah, thank you very much for inviting me and I look forward to the episodes in the
future.
But you may get invited back.
So that's the penalty for being here once as you may have to come back once more.
But no, seriously, thank you Paul for agreeing to come on.
I've really enjoyed this recording purely on the basis of finally, I actually get to
meet you having spoken to you a number of times and I'd completely forgotten about it,
which I apologize.
But also I'm learning stuff as I go and that's part of what this whole experience,
what this, this project of the beer garden is all about.
So yeah, thank you.
Thank you.
Right.
So if you're listening to this and you want to send us any feedback, then the best thing
to do a B to leave us a comment on the Hacker Public Radio website for this episode.
And of course, if you are of a verbose nature, then please feel free to record an
episode in response to this one.
That would be absolutely fantastic.
So thank you again, Paul.
Thank you, everybody, for listening and join us again tomorrow for another exciting
episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
