Episode: 4319
Title: HPR4319: Am Rande - on the edge
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4319/hpr4319.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:54:59

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,319 for Thursday the 20th of February 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Amran Don the Edge.
It is part of a series science fiction and fantasy.
It is the 10th show of Fucky, and is about four minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, on a science fiction book from Eastern Germany from the 1970s.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hi, this is Fucky.
OK not Fucky's voice, because he is testing the text to speech system Piper with my voice.
Nind Alber.
He found me because he is using rock books on his Santa Clip Plus and Santa Clip Sip and
the main developer announced that he is switching to Piper for the voice files in the daily
builds, which made Fucky curious and he installed Piper to T.S. on his thinkpad with voices
in English, Swedish and German.
All of these sound really good in Fucky's ears, but now to the main issue of this show,
are we continue with Fucky as the one writing me and I.
In show 4,180 Hacker started a new series about science fiction and fantasy, as always
very good planned and structured.
I won't do it just as well as him, but want to distribute in the series.
As you already know from previous shows, I was born and lived in a former DDR and that
way I have some other influences than most of you.
For example, we read more The Wizard of the Emerald City by Alexander Volkov instead
of Elle.
Frank Bams, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.
Believe it or not we had science fiction too.
My first book in the genre was called I'm Rand Wohnen-Diwilden, which means on the
edge of life the savages.
I remember it as written by some Russian author, but when I researched a bit for this show
I discovered it was in East German like me and he wrote a lot more books than this.
His name was Klaus Fruhoff, was because he died in 2005.
I remember this book so well, because it had some themes still talking to me.
Imagine a world inhabited by an advanced civilization that killed all other life on the planet
because of hadginaic objectives.
Instead of trees and plants there are beautiful crystal structures.
The inhabitants of this world are communicating by means of a planet-wide network, working
with some kind of thought-reading caponet on the head.
This works so well that all political decisions are taken by direct votes in this network.
Some de-astronomers are detecting a small planet on the edge of the galaxy, which seems
to have intelligent life, but also of their biological life.
And that is unbelievable for this society so proud about their clean planet.
It can't be true that intelligent beings would live with dirty animals and plants, and
worst of all, dangerous microbes.
So a big discussion is started on the network, which nearly splits the society.
One fraction wants to explore the strange planet by sending a spaceship.
The other one is strictly against it, because it's unreasonable to invest such an amount
of resources, just to take a look at savages.
In the end the first fraction is winning, and the spaceship is arriving with a team of scientists
at this strange planet, Tellus.
Yek, you guessed right, it's what we call the Earth.
They send them in a way team, taking contact to tellus slash Earth's inhabitants.
They are being welcomed and get shown around the different places and climate zones of
the planet.
But in an accident in some rainforest, their vehicle is taking damage, and they breathe
Earth's air and get polluted.
Now the medical experts of Tellus are an alarm, and research if there is any compatibility
between the organisms.
Luckily they find some anti-agents in the blood of some human seeming to work on the other
beings, and they are getting cured.
But now the members of the way team can't return to their own world, because they would
contaminate the others, and there wouldn't be enough medicine for them.
The spaceship is flying home without them.
That's all I remember from the book.
Some of it might not totally correct, but you get the right impression of it in any case.
As far as I could find, there is no English translation of this book with the other work
of this author.
I think that's a pity.
Have a good time and give more shows on science fiction, and slash or fancy yourself.
You have been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com.
The Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
