Episode: 4103
Title: HPR4103: What's in my bag?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4103/hpr4103.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:38:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4103 for Wednesday the 24th of April 2024.
Today's show is entitled What's in My Bag.
It is part of the series What's in My Toolkit.
It is the first show by Newhost Dave Hengley and is about five minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is an examination of the bag I use when out on the road.
Hi Hacker's.
This is my first ever show for Hacker Public Radio and keeping in tradition it's what's
in my bag.
So I don't really use my bag very often.
So this is not going to be very interesting episode I'm afraid.
I do use it when I'm on the road travelling and that's usually I've been just visiting
people or if I'm at a comic convention I'll have the bag with me and I have this very
specific though there so let's talk about that shall we.
First up is the bag itself.
Now the bag is an Estara laptop messenger bag and it'll take a 17 inch sort of laptop
bag.
I've had it probably eight or nine years ago.
It's a gift from my mother-in-law for Christmas and it's brilliant.
It's got loads of pockets inside the main bag itself, some on the sides, a little zip
one in there as well.
Lots of little copy holes to put things in.
So what sort of things have I got in my bag?
Well if I'm travelling to a convention or I'm going to be on the road for a long time
then there'll be a laptop in the bag.
A laptop is an Apollo M200 entryway laptop.
Interestingly enough it's a laptop I won it in the competition from the Ubuntu UK podcast
I did a comic and it was deemed a winner for their competition and so I got a laptop.
Also in the bag will be the charger.
There'll be a mouse which is a Microsoft wireless mouse of $5,000.
There'll be an A5 Notepad and pen, it's got a little fold on there, just with some pockets
in there for like putting business cards or jotting down ideas like this when I'm on the
road.
There's going to be a couple of propelling pencils, like disposable ones so you can sort
of get these packs of about 12 sort of paper make ones where you twist the barrel.
So there's a few of those in there.
There's going to be a Samsung Galaxy 10.1 2014 edition.
I bought this that four years ago, I used it for model rings.
It's the best Samsung Galaxy tablet 10.1 edition, there was an earlier version and that
would spontaneously brick and I went through two of those before I realised that the 2014
edition was like way more stable.
I use it every day for drawing.
It's got a 128 gig SD card on there and I just moved it on and off the main storage
of the tablet as I need it and then I can hook that up to my computer using like a little
trans flash card or even just a HDMI, a USB cable.
Also in the laptop will be an A4 light box and it sounds like a big thing, it's a sheet
of plastic with a micro USB port on the side, you put it in there, there's a series of LEDs
at the side which lights up and evenly illuminates the sheet of the specs that you can then
put sheets of paper on top and trace with.
Along with that there are four mini bulldog clips, so if I'm doing any sort of work on paper
I can carry on working.
There'll be an A4 folder with some paper in there.
Any work that I'm working on that I need to keep off my computer so they'll be backed
up onto USB sticks so I'll take those with me as well.
And then I will be bringing with me a power bank and in you power bank it's a B1, B4,
1, 10,000 milliamp power power bank, it's got a USB C in and 2 USB out, I use it at conventions
to power two micro controllers doing some display stuff on stands and it's brilliant.
It'll go for two days, for eight hours powering these micro controllers, there'll be loads
of power left in there to recharge my phone if I need it and it takes next to no time
to charge up on anything so it's perfect for that sort of thing.
What else is in my bag?
What else is in there?
Well there's also a phone charger, the standard phone charger sort of wall walk thing, there'll
be a couple USB cables in there as well some USB extended cables as well so I can sort
of use the bank to power the controllers or I can use it to charge up my phone or I can
use it to power the light box as well.
So that's what's in my bag, this is my first episode, it's a very short one I'm sure.
Thanks for listening and maybe you'll find it interesting, thanks for now.
You have been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio does walk.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
The hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our sync.net.
On this otherwise stated today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
