Episode: 4419
Title: HPR4419: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4419/hpr4419.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:30:53

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,419 for Thursday 10 July 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 hash 1.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahuka and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is part one of my list of subscribe channels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahuka for Hacker Public Radio.
Welcoming you to another exciting episode that has nothing to do with any series.
In fact, this show is being recorded for the Reserve Q.
So if you are hearing it, that means that we need more shows and you should do something
about that.
I am doing something fairly simple and easy just to throw some more stuff into the queue.
And it is something that I did once before, but that was in 2019, and that was to talk
about YouTube Subscriptions for channels that I have.
Now, some people will on an evening decide that they are going to relax by watching television,
which is fine.
It is not anything I tend to do.
What I do if I want to relax in an evening is I watch YouTube videos, and I have subscribed
to a bunch of channels, and the way it works when you subscribe to a channel, let's say
you watch a YouTube video, and you think, oh, I would like to hear more from this person.
Well, if you click on their name under the video, you will go to their page, and you
can subscribe, if you go to their page and you see what they like, go ahead and subscribe.
There is usually a button, you click subscribe, but then there is also the notifications.
So generally, if I have subscribed to a channel, I want to be notified about any videos they
produce.
Well, I click the bell to indicate that I want to subscribe to all of the notifications,
so that whenever they post a video, I will be notified about it.
And then in my browser, when I go to YouTube, there is a little bell icon in the upper right,
and if I click on that, I will see all of the notifications.
And if I have watched the video, I can click next to the notification and say, hide this
from now on, because I have watched the video.
I don't really need to see it anymore.
So that is how I do it.
So why do I watch all these YouTube videos?
It is really because I can see the things that I am interested in, my particular interests.
One is defined as broadcast, and the key term there is broad.
You know, they are trying to get the largest audience possible, so they want to create
something that they think will attract large numbers of people.
Well, that is well and good for their business model, I suppose.
But it doesn't tend to be the stuff that I am most interested in watching.
Now, what happens is my interests change over time.
I did this in 2019, and you know, I keep records.
I look at the show notes from when I did it before, and it was like, most of the ones here,
I don't subscribe to anymore, I have got a whole bunch of different ones.
For instance, in 2019, we were getting ready to get an RV and go traveling around.
There were lots of channels about RV travels and the RV lifestyle and technical tips and
stuff like that that I subscribed to.
Well, since then, we have sold the RV, decided we are done with that, and so I unsubscribed
to those channels.
It is not my current interest.
What are my current interests?
Well, you will pretty much see as I go through this.
What some of my current interests are, because they will be reflected in the shows I talked
about.
So I went into YouTube and there you can go to take a look at all of your subscriptions
there, usually on the left.
There's a place you can go and click on managing your subscriptions and I sorted it alphabetically
and printed it out.
So I'm just going to kind of go through some of these and talk about what they are and
anything about why I enjoy them just briefly.
And maybe something will interest you that you might want to check out these channels.
So the first one is called Two Legs, a Paul McCartney podcast.
Now the title might strike you as rather on, you know, Two Legs, what does that have
to do?
Well, first of all, you have to know there's a Paul McCartney song called Three Legs.
And it has a lyric about my dog has Three Legs, but he can't run and stuff like that.
So this podcast decided to go with Two Legs because it's Two People, Tom Hanyadi and Andy
Nichols at present.
And they've been going for a number of years and they are focused on the solo work of Paul
McCartney, whether it's part of Wings or just as Paul McCartney.
Well, I'm a big fan of Paul McCartney.
So I thought I would like to subscribe to this.
I do.
They also have a podcast that I subscribe to.
But I'd like to keep in touch both through the audio podcast and the YouTube channel sometimes.
Well, you know, I'm a Beatles fan.
That will be a parent, I suppose.
And also a interested in music.
So the next one I'm going to mention is Adam Neely.
Now Adam is an interesting fellow.
He's in a kind of a, I guess you call jazz fusion band called Stargazer.
And he talks about gigging sometimes or just topics about music.
He's a graduate for the Berkeley College of Music.
He has some interesting takes on various issues.
So sometimes he'll do something technical about rhythms and beats and how to count those
out and use them in music or other times it might be something about.
He's done a few things about copyrights.
And you know, when there's a lawsuit about, you know, someone stole my melody and, you
know, he'll go in and he'll analyze it, usually finding that, well, you know, there's
not much basis for a lawsuit here.
But it's interesting stuff.
I've been a musician for many years.
So it's something I enjoy.
Now the next one is Al Reviews Who.
Now this is about Dr. Hill, Dr. Who.
And as you know from my series on fantasy and science fiction, I'm a big Dr. Who fan,
I've been for a number of years.
I'd say going back to the 70s and starting with John Partley, the third Dr. So I've got
a number of Dr. Who related things in here.
And this is one, you know, I'm interested to hear some of the reviews that other people
give to different programs of Dr. Who.
Now the next one is called Alternate History Hub.
Now I'm a big fan of history in general.
Alternate history is sort of, well, you know, what if something happened differently?
So what happened if the South won the Civil War in America?
What happened if the Archduke didn't get assassinated in Sarajevo?
Yeah, how might things have played out?
So basically this is a channel where they'll take scenarios like that and try and come
up with what they think is a plausible alternative as to what might have happened with that small
change.
I find that kind of stuff interesting, so that's a channel I've subscribed to.
Now the next one is AMA Waterways River Cruising.
I've done a couple of river cruises, wouldn't mind doing a few more.
One of the things that my wife and I have devoted ourselves to in retirement is to do
as much traveling as we can and so far we've been pretty fortunate in being able to do
that.
Our first river cruise was for our 40th anniversary and that was along the Rhine and then
in 2022 we did a river cruise on the Danube.
And like I say, we'd like to do more AMA, I don't know if it's an abbreviation or if
it's just AMA or whatever, but it is one of the companies that does that.
Viking is one, there's probably half a dozen companies that do that sort of thing.
So this keeps me up on the latest news.
And Amy Shira Tidal, who is an author and basically she is a space enthusiast and has
particularly looked at a lot of stuff of what happened in the 50s, 60s and 70s and that's
something that I'm very much interested in.
I'm a huge space geek.
So with Amy's channel that gives me some stuff to enjoy in that area.
Next is Andrew Gourney, who is a guitarist.
I played guitar myself for a number of years and I always enjoy guitar music.
One of the things I particularly enjoy is acoustic finger style guitar and there's
a number of people on this list that would fall into that category.
Andrew Gourney is one of them and I enjoy his music.
Another one is Andy McKee.
Now Andy McKee does a number of things.
He got together with two other acoustic finger style guitarists to form a group called
Traplicity and they've done some interesting things and Andy is one of the top finger style
guitar players, very good stuff.
Then let's see, there's a fellow named Anthony Robastelli.
He's a musician and also an author.
I've listened to his music.
I've enjoyed his analysis of some of the other music Beatles, Staley Dan, stuff like that.
So that's a channel that I do find rather interesting.
The next one is Apartment Sessions and this is a very interesting music channel.
I found this through Adam Neely because he played in a few of these.
This takes place in New York City.
I think Brooklyn, if I recall correctly.
Basically it's a whole bunch of musicians get together in an apartment and record a piece
of music.
It could be a cover of something that a famous group did or something they wrote themselves,
but they would put like 30 musicians in a single apartment.
It gets very crowded, but they manage to do it and turn out some very interesting kinds
of music.
So I have very much enjoyed Apartment Sessions and I look forward to any time they're going
to put out another piece of music.
Then the Arthur C. Clark Center has a channel and Arthur C. Clark is obviously one of the
big three science fiction authors also wrote Science Fact and so this center was established
and I think it's UC San Diego and they bring in authors to give talks of various kinds.
Maybe sometimes Nobel Prize-winning scientists, sometimes other science fiction authors.
I think David Brinn has spoken there a few times.
So this channel just lets me see if there's anything interesting that they have done lately
that I might want to pay attention to and then I'll complete the letter A with the Association
of Irish and Celtic festivals.
I've been to Ireland twice, I am of Irish heritage, which means that my ancestors came here
during the famine like so many people of Irish heritage in the United States and I enjoy
Irish music, Irish dancing, Irish culture, various kinds.
And I like going to festivals so this lets me keep up on the news about what might be
happening and these festivals all over the world.
So I think with that this is enough for one episode.
This is a hookah for Hacker Public Radio signing off and as always encouraging you to support
free software.
Bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
