Episode: 4152
Title: HPR4152: URandom Pirate Episode 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4152/hpr4152.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:23:20

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4152 for Tuesday 2 July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, You Random Pirate Episode.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 15 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, this is a pirate episode of You Random with Special Guest.
Test test test 1, 2, 3, test test test.
Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host Operator.
I'd pick up the microphone and do a improv to be fixing a kid's clay pottery machine
and explaining what I'm doing here.
So normally, on weekends, my child and I and family, we spend time together, but it normally
ends up being me getting distracted with something because I have an ADD, and by the time
I've gotten the thing to work or whatever the activity is, I'm left there by myself fixing
something or getting something to work or obsessing over whatever it is.
So today, it's a clay thing while my child screams outside with his mom trying to get
sillies out.
So instead of us doing activity, Connor is being crazy with his mother in a way to call
it swing thing outside, and so that's going to be fun to hear screaming.
And then I'm going to be fixing a clay machine thing here.
So fast forward about 10 minutes if you don't want to hear screaming, child, having fun.
So first things first, we've got a plastic pottery machine, a plastic pottery machine.
And this is in direct response to a bad audio, HBR, and the indefinite stuff.
Alright, so I've got some homemade clay.
So you basically take in our endorza, you take some old, just stick in the backyard deep
mess.
We'll get some pretty dark thick turd directly.
Oh, we've got some already sticks.
Someone's already taken this apart, it's like, it's just crappy, yeah, Chinese-Yam screws.
Chinese-Yam screws are coming from there, they're not very, they're never, they're never
quite right.
I have actual screwdriver, but you can do with Chinese-Yam screws, as you can tell,
you can take nice screwdriver, or decent screwdriver, and then sand down the front of the thing.
I have no idea what I'm pushing on, but it's not, our outside furniture, which we've
got for free, is covered.
So I don't exactly have a flat surface to work on.
It's just like it's got batteries on both sides, which is too battery compartment, oh,
these batteries are rid of these or come, giant, giant, deep batteries, which you don't
see anymore, because nobody makes electronics, of course, it's a poo anymore, hence, I'm
taking this thing apart, and then deep batteries on the other side, which is a little weird
thing I've ever seen.
Two battery compartments, one side, two of a little, two batteries on the other side, whatever.
So in the center of this, in the center of our table, outside, is puddle of water, in
which you have to spray, a book spray in, so that the, oh, this is not looking good.
So those that the mosquitoes will take over.
So we've got a very simple motor, of course, a plastic motor, with all plastic parts and
all plastic plastic.
Now what I see here is a shattered drive shaft, which doesn't sound like a great, sorry.
So this should be pretty quick.
So someone has smashed what feels like in the center of the, someone got upset and smashed
down into the center of the drive shaft and broke it and forced it down.
So I'm not going to bother with the screws in here.
So someone probably got mad and went, bam, right on the top of the rotating disc thing.
And now we have more and more or less broken.
The way to fix this is throwing the trash and being done with it.
The second one is to what looks like, yes, it's fed by one big plastic gear, fed by
whatever.
So the gears are fine, but someone smashed it so hard, someone named Connor probably smashed
it so hard.
I can't, yes, it was spinning prior to Connor's existence.
So he was probably told to do something or he was probably told to do it a certain way
and he got frustrated and smacked it.
So now we have a broken drive tram or whatever you call it.
So the rods in the middle, we have some pressure here to keep it together, but other than that,
I don't, other than like something just to push this down, to push the rod up against
the top of the device.
So like a big piece of plastic about, yay, doll, we're going to find something, I'm all
y'all, there's not as much green, but he's still kind of playing around with whatever.
Let's see, are we about 10 minutes in?
Six minutes, 48 seconds.
So we have another like five minutes before we're going to have to tell people to pass
forward or not.
Let's see, a garage full of randomness.
And this is my mega-giver face, and if any of you could know what mega-giver is, then
what I'm talking about, I'm going to take a some kind of hard piece of wedge or a piece
of wood.
I don't have a lot of wood stuff, but I get my wood from the makerspace downstream.
I got a stack of painting deals, painting stir sticks, those are great for shims.
You can use multiple, multiple of those.
There's a piece of cardboard for a styrofoam, so it seems to want to be the exact height
that I want.
It's a malleable, right?
It's got some squish to it, so it can be mashed on.
And lucky for us, gone is already a whole end with all of it, so I'm going to hit the
cup down.
It's an old, you know, Omaha steaks, the things that Omaha steaks come in.
So we're going to see if it's just so happenstances to fit on here, and it doesn't, which is what
we want, because we want to force this on top of here by means of screwing all the plastics
screws back in, and it's forcing it to stay together, so we'll hit the chuck all the way
in here, screws, you don't have a hammer drill, and you're a fixer person, get one, so now
we have a bulge in the bottom of the device that's pushing, right, pushing down on the
same.
It's got a barrel connector for what looks like six volts, I don't even know if I have
six volts, my old boss quit, and quit, or move, sorry, to California.
And he has a two, two columns full of electronics, everything but his switch kind of took
from gaming fireworks, all kinds of computers, iPriders, old school, you know, some old school
stuff, you know.
And since I don't have a six volt adapter, and my rules on fixing children's toys, is
I give it a one go, and after that, I throw the trash, hey man, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
I think you just want to drop it. I'll call it from a long level like this to a facebook slideshow if I feature something I can I'd like to show you some great pics today. Go check out a m so follow that recipe on description box
And then, and then I have these ideas and I get in trouble for them.
I know, I know, I know, I get excited when I get out of this.
Oh, it's like, should you check for your phone over there?
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Oh, see, I do, I did put you in there.
Just...
Yeah.
Nah, I'd be going there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sounds good.
Hey, what's wrong?
All right, so I've put this piece of styrofoam in here.
And now it's seemingly...
Oh God, that is loud.
Working.
I mean, it's really loud. I'm not going to make you suffer through that.
But I think we're a good spot.
It's spinning.
As long as that gear is pushed up against the piece of plastic,
and I can push down fairly hard here.
I'm sure the batteries are going to run out by the time you do anything.
We've got a little pedal here. We can try the pedal.
The pedal is just a mono...
It's a plastic pedal.
The screaming has stuff.
I think because he's interested in what I'm doing,
or the neighbor.
Got him, too.
And it's like the, you know, the sewing pedal.
A little sewing pedal.
Yeah.
Oh, it's got a little...
...plitch, plutch, slip disk on it, kind of thing.
So I think we're good.
And the middle is off.
The middle is off.
Up is pedal, down is on.
So, what else?
Anyways, we're good to go.
Hopefully we can instill some values into children not to smash things.
Anyways, that's somebody else probably didn't.
But the crack sub it is is I end up kind of getting lost.
And things like this.
And instead of spinning time with family, I'm off.
Fixing something or tearing something apart or repairing something and then losing time.
But anyways.
I'll be going.
Take it easy.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listening like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
