Episode: 4371
Title: HPR4371: HPR Community News for April 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4371/hpr4371.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:51:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4371 from Monday 5 May 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for April 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 38 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is.
HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in April 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is HBR Community News for April 2025.
Joining me this evening is Scabby.
And Kevin sends on his apologies, something turned up, and he's not able to attend this month.
This is the Community News HBR Community Podcast where we really show about more or less anything that's of interest to hackers.
Our motto is dedicated to sharing knowledge and this is the Community News where the community
come together and discuss stuff that's been happening on the HBR millies and anything else that's been going on.
One of the main things that we do is go through the shows and thrills to announce we have new holes this month.
So Scotty, without further ado, oh, did I introduce you?
Oh yeah, I did, yeah.
Can you welcome the new holes, please?
Sure, we have five new holes.
We have birth.
Oh yeah, we have birth.
We have germ, I'm thinking that's short for Jeremy or something like that, Elizabeth.
Comox, call three mox, I guess, and OXO.
Yes.
And all of those folks contributed a show to HBR and it's easy, easy, 11 squeezey to do.
So you too can record a show.
There's plenty of shows on HBR about how to record a show.
But give you a flavor of what has been out the last month.
I'll just go to the first show, which was of my country, Brazil, in a southern city viewing by Anton.
Oh yeah.
Go ahead of work.
Wonderful show.
I left a comment on it, letting them know that I appreciate it.
I like hearing from someone who actually has been there or in his case lives there.
Cool.
So there was also a comment by Andrew, which says,
tanks and transition sounds.
Hi, Anton, I like hearing about Brazil.
Thank you.
It's always interesting to hear about places from someone who has lived there.
Regarding the sound transitions, it's just lowering the volume and fading them in out to make them less jarring.
However, they really aren't needed at all.
Thanks for the HPR show.
Well, you're also going to comment.
So I'll just do the quick Antoine response.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Hi, Andrew.
Thank you for the tip.
I'll take that into the account for future shows.
Hope you like this hug.
And there's my comment.
There's scope and info.
I agree with Andrew regarding sound transitions, mostly in the first few sound transitions.
Thank you for the show.
And I enjoy knowing the information is provided based on someone's personal experiences.
Reminds me of the good old days when you could request information from a person,
a real human being without creating an account and submitting a payment method first.
Cheers, Scotty.
And Anton says, hi, Scotty.
Thank you for coming listening and bringing your gentle and useful feedback, hugs for everybody.
So the following day, we had, oh, yes, resizing.
Just sent a shiver up my spine.
There's a Mr. X show resizing the root partition on the PC.
What happened when he finally resized the root partition on his Dell OptiPlex PC?
Yes.
Lesson one, don't do this sort of thing when you're in the traditional hurry.
And lesson two, do a backup was the key.
Lesson three was don't rush things and look out for our messages.
Lessons four, don't use old versions of G-Party.
Particularly when performing operations on modern systems.
Lesson five, it might be a good idea to use a journaling file system.
So, uh, Kevin says, a close scrape.
Thank you for sharing your experience.
To be honest, we are so guilty of doing things quickly, especially when there are tasks that
are quite familiar with.
I'm so glad you didn't crop the drive.
Excellent pointers for anybody wishing to edit partitions.
The one thing I always do is put the swap a boot partition, etc.
at the start of a drive and then have my roof followed by the home.
That means if I need to resize it, it doesn't need to move the partitions.
This is being while I've had the, this is where I've had the majority of issues in the past.
It shows how much distrails have changed over the years.
Bracero used to be included with them all, but nowadays the majority of computers come without
optical drives.
And my own comment. Lesson four made me laugh out loud.
I paused the episode to quickly run a backup of my own data.
Make certain you label those compact discs and store them in a sleeve.
Sounds like you may need them again.
Thanks for the show.
That's pretty sure for someone I was sort of glad he was able to recover.
The next day we had X-Bind keys sent keys for Linux.
X-Bind set up and this was a show by operator.
It is about how you can script certain keys to do certain things.
Very good. I'm wondering with the advent of Welland how much of this X-Bind stuff
is going to survive.
I use some critical scripts that I use maybe a thousand times a day in the background
uses this sort of trickery.
So I'm a bit, a bit concerned I have to admit.
Yeah. That was a good answer.
Yeah. When I heard, when I listened to this show,
I thought, man, it's a bit too late for me now, but he mentioned that this is sort of a
similar thing to the one on Windows that I can't get auto-hockey.
And I use auto-hockey all the time on Windows.
I was like, man, where was this when I needed it?
Yeah, I use auto-key on Linux to do little scripty stuff,
as well as little tools to copy from the X-clip board and paste back in and stuff like that.
But operator definitely brings a different perspective on how he views the
computing bit like yourself, actually.
I enjoy both of your shows for that reason.
Next day, we had more photo fixes with Gimp.
And these are fixes for some of the absolute
common problems with the Gimp.
Like, you're basic.
Listen to this series from Ouka and 99% of the stuff that people use for
the shop for, you'll be able to do it in the Gimp.
It's as simple as that.
In this episode, two problems turn out to be related to similar fixes,
dark colors and color problems in general.
So two videos in the links and of course, links to the detailed show notes in the show notes.
No comments on that as yes.
And then we had the community news as well, which lacked comments.
Scotty, I think we're not controversial enough.
But yeah, let's see if we can fix that.
Yeah, one of these things that I'm going to share in a regional opinion over here.
And yeah, so when someone deals with me over it.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, I love this.
Why grandma?
Why grandma?
What a large language model you have.
By some guy in the internet,
talks about large models and the education.
I had to turn this off because I was laughing so much on the train.
Going in for six-club people, we're looking at me going,
what's the weirdo doing on the train here?
Like, I can't say I disagree with the word you said in this.
And plenty of links in the show notes.
Yeah, I was afraid I was going to rant too much on it,
but I got it out in short enough time.
Yeah, and if you disagree, far ahead.
I think there's a good comment from the Hackaday podcast,
or close weekly.
He says, I'm waiting for the hype about AI to die down so we can start using AI.
Yeah, I agree with that 100%.
Absolutely.
Now, the next distinct lack of comments folks,
distinct lack of comments,
as it happens, that's convenient for me because we can have a shorter episode.
However, it is the mama by which our host,
it is the shackles by which our hosts get paid.
So please provide comments to the episodes.
It's fantastic.
When you've recorded a show and somebody leaves a little bit of feedback,
it brightens up your day.
Takes five minutes of your time.
There's a link on every single episode in the RSS feed.
You go click here at the very bottom of the show notes,
every page in the RSS feed.
Just click here in the show notes.
If you go to the website, if you're reading it there,
you just can leave a comment directly on the web page.
The comment system is easy enough to use.
You put your name, what you're comments about,
and you comment itself.
It needs to be over a certain length and you need the anti-spam question is,
what does the P in hacker public radio stand for?
And you can write that in an upper or lower case.
That'll be fine.
Sometimes if you're commenting on older episodes that are more than two weeks old
or on newer episodes that are newer, that are in the future feed,
you will be asked additional questions because those are spam tactics
that spammers use to comment on older episodes.
So we have additional questions in there.
What you need to answer is the following question.
Are you a spammer?
Yes or no?
So you click the S button.
And are you which host delivered that show?
And there's a list of common people who we as yes have not had as host
and you just look over the top.
So this one you would pick tattoo from that drop down list.
And then you need to put in some text to convince myself and the team
that you are a hbr person.
So whatever that shows us to be.
It's some of the things I've got back from that have been very funny
and have cheered me up no end.
So yeah, this show, Diff, and Patch.
Classics from the two about how you can create a Diff and using,
so you have a big large file and you want to make some small changes in that.
You send just the Diff file which is tiny and you apply it to the large file and then
you have exactly the same changes as the other person.
I used this show a two day when I was opening a book.
So very useful.
How does to your literally this show add to your toolbox and you will be glad
of it.
It will you will use this information.
Yeah, this reminds me of the the no forge
get contributing method.
Yes, or use some of the patch?
Yes, how do you want you to Diff out your patches and all of that?
Yeah.
So yeah, it seems a bit scary the first time you see it, but then you kind of get the
anger, but particularly if you've if you've done it for a while.
The following day was episode five from the New Year's show.
Great work from you.
And, oh, who else was that?
Why?
HB and Honky Muffin.
Hello, Krab Mr. Lovecraft.
Thank you, yes, of course.
Unfortunately, I get I get blinded by the names.
Anyway, and excellent links in there to everything that was covered on the show.
I really did enjoy listening to those shows.
And I also enjoyed being on them.
Archers of the two had a top tip for me, one which I know I'll be using in the future.
And I kind of guess I know what day I'll be using it on around December the 30th.
Next year of this year, actually, recording audio player streaming to Dark Ice.
So a brief overview of streaming a vinyl record from his laptop.
You heard that folks correctly.
You play a vinyl record and then you stream it out to Dark Ice.
So what's Dark Ice?
You may ask it's a live audio streamer.
So it allows you to click on the link on the website and play the stream.
Again, no comments.
Yeah, another great show from Archer, allowing you to free yourself from some of the,
you know, the Spotify's and other things out there using your own music.
Yeah, exactly.
And there was a major outage in Spain and Portugal this week.
So I guess a lot of people were without Spotify for the first time in their lives.
At the view of the real world.
Yeah.
And yes, bit of preparations also know her.
Lee had to show mirror mirror on the wall.
Lee talks about running a private Ubuntu mirror.
Very good idea if you got like multiple,
multiple servers inside a firewall back in the day.
This was something that we did quite a lot in order to,
yeah, but it was also of benefit to be able to host our own packages on on the local mirror.
And then it just became seamless essentially.
Very useful there, even if you're not interested in that in the SFTP.
And how to set it up as well.
That's something else that you may be asked to do in your IT career from time to time.
And you can come back to this here.
Yeah, loving the show notes.
Short sweetened to the point.
So the show notes have got the front-up section, the up mirror section,
the mirror list section, and the config for VSFTP.
And then Ubuntu sources list.
So everything that you need to get it up and running without having to skip the ads
or without having to fast forward the video or without having to play 15 videos calls.
They were all just, yeah, I still.
And we have Murph finally submitting a show.
This is great news.
HPR listener for a long time back in the twat days today with the techie.
That's nearly that not isn't nearly that is 20 years ago this year, 20 years ago.
And some of the topics that note out he will be covering in his next episodes is the Vic 20.
Commodore was my first computer actually.
Amiga, C programming, very good, very good.
Slackware, spangle, pangle con, loads of loads of stuff.
And there nobody left him a comment, which is kind of weird.
But hopefully, particularly when new hosts come along, what's great is if people can comment on them
and try and get lists the type of episodes that you would like to hear them play.
Good.
What is goofball?
goofball?
Yeah, it's one of the tags goofball Linux goofball.
Yeah, well, you need to do a show, tell us what goofball is.
And the following day, we did have a germ who had
an episode on how they came into Linux and free software.
And there were two comments.
The first one was from Archer 72.
First episode, thanks for your first show.
There are a few topics that will be of interest.
It's almost as if Archer 72 is traveling his inner can there.
Elder Scrolls, a basic idea of how to play it.
I'm not a gamer.
And if you want tips on how to cover a something like this,
have a listen to the hookah show on.
He's covered some of the games over there.
Second point, Archer would like to suggest is more details on org d20.
And of course, exwm, more details on that.
Next comment from Paul Jay.
Welcome to HPR.
Congratulations on the first show on.
Thank you for giving me credit for giving you to take the first steps.
I think you have many topics of interest to HPR listeners.
And I would certainly like to hear more about your Gnu,
your Geeks experience, and org d20.
Your home automation journey would also provide a rich stem of topics that are great
interest. I look forward to your next show.
Exactly, actually, I was going to say that as well.
That came up.
Very good.
Thanks Paul for those comments.
We do have a fledgling home automation series and whenever I get some of that mystical stuff
called free time, then I hope to be able to continue to contribute episodes to that.
And Paul Jay, who had just left a comment, left the next episode, which was fostering my personal
experiences and foster is basically an overview of what it was like to be there and stuff like that.
And I really found this an enjoyable show.
Made me sad that I wasn't able to go to foster stem to experiences with them.
But foster stem is so draining.
I go there, I go into hyper mode, but it was also nice to hear
somebody's view from just going as an all free open source, liberal open source,
enthusiast, and just enjoying the episode, enjoying the event.
Yeah, you get to live my curiously through them.
Exactly. So the next day was the 18th and it was part of a hook series on science fiction.
In this one, he's covering Isaac Azimov robot nulls.
And these are my absolute favorites from Isaac Azimov.
And when I was young, I just devoured these books, really, really loved them.
Yeah, I can't do any fantasy. My imagination is broken.
So if it's not something I have actually seen before, it just draws a blank.
And you might want to try, I wrote about if you have ever seen the
bicentennial man, the movie from Robin Williams.
It's an adaptation of that. It's quite a nice short story.
There's a whole series of short stories, quite not.
So the next day, Swift 110, on my own time, expresses a frustration about people who
push their choice of distro on others. When I was reading this, I was thinking, oh my god,
no, we're going to never rant. We're going to have to deal with the outlet.
But it wasn't about that. It was a thoughtful, nice episode.
And Paul left some very good comments on it. Do you want to do them?
Or is it my turn?
I got it.
Okay.
Paul J.
I get it.
I grouped the comments about distros.
I think the most important thing is to pick a distro and stick with it.
Get good and understand how it's built and maintained.
Ideally, start to engage with the community behind it.
And when a problem arises, you can fix it.
Perhaps upstream the solution.
I never push my choice of distro onto others.
But if they are interested, I'm willing to share and support the effort to use it.
It's not arched, by the way.
Very good.
Now, good advice.
They're all around.
I mean, it's a journey.
You know, you come to Linux the first time and you go,
it's too hard and it's all stupid.
I'm never using it again.
You go back to your old ROS.
And then you come back to Linux.
And then you're so enthusiastic about all these distros.
Give me all the shiny.
And then you find that you're running like default install
of a standard operating system for the last 10 years and five years.
And I mean, you don't even change the background color.
Yes, at the same time, everything is scripted to the 9s and copies over
because it's all in your home directory.
So yeah, I don't know.
Seven seven stages of was a 12 stages of of Linux.
Elizabeth's first episode where she talks about her journey to tech,
how she went to HPR and special interests and brought brought to us by Lee.
There was a nice selection of comments on this.
Archer 72 says welcome and cybersecurity.
Hello, welcome to our community for your interest in books.
May I recommend the audio book club series hack about the radio.
And then it's it's a link 157.
Google's cybersecurity certification sounds interesting,
even though I personally don't have any experience in the field.
There are people here that do like operator.
Here we have Trey.
Welcome, Elizabeth.
Thank you for sharing your introduction and how you got here.
It is said that so many cyber jobs require a four-year degree
and when you are extremely skilled self-taught people
ready and willing to be a part of the solution.
It is great that you have joined HPR.
Exactly.
As somebody involved in hiring IT people in the past,
it's very, very difficult to convince the IT HR department.
Don't always look at the degrees.
Look at the experience more.
When we've had in my career, not necessarily where I work now,
we've had lots of people who didn't ever degree just come in
and are now like operating at architect level and don't have to do the job thing
because they're they're headhunted from one place to the next.
Good, more power today.
So I hope it works out for Elizabeth.
But then again, I am glad I listened to my mother get that little bit of paper,
even though it's in mechanical engineering, but it's still a bit of paper.
Paul Jay says welcome to HPR Elizabeth.
Hi, Elizabeth.
Thanks for the great show and welcome to HPR.
I look forward to some interesting shows in the future.
It sounds like you have many things to share.
Did we share what kind of some of the things in the tags?
Tech, Intro, Mental Health, Atari, Cessna.
Hello.
Yes.
We have a mental health series.
Atari, yeah, retro commuting, big thing.
I know certain people are interested in
aeroplanes and all that that entails.
So yeah, feel free to talk to us about that,
about building your own and maintaining your airplane.
That would be awesome.
Next, we have FXB, welcome.
Good show, Elizabeth.
Nice to hear the different perspective on your journey in the tech.
Looking forward to more shows and subjects of interest.
And Kevin O'Brien comes in, loved the show.
I enjoyed your introduction and look forward to hearing more from you.
So that brings it to somebody else's first episode.
Is this like three-in-a-roll or something?
This is happy.
Here, happy days.
I thought for a second we were being de-dust.
So this from Cosmoc or KO3Moc,
short introduction to my journey into Linux,
Python, Foss, and Ham Radio.
All of those we have tags and series on all of those
topics right there.
So please continue to just continue your shows.
Just on that radio thing, we're doing a,
I've got a whole list of how to pass the hierarchy thing.
So let's set up a meeting later about that one.
Archer 72 says, first show, welcome.
Congratulations on your first show.
We have something in common as I also collect Raspberry Pis
and I have at least one from Generation 1 to 5.
Ah yes, sitting nice and neatly in the drawer.
Another comment from Archer 72,
Ham Radio.
I again, I noticed that you,
that on one of your topics is Ham Radio.
My call sign is KD9VMW.
That's Kilo Delta 9 or Victor Mike Whiskey.
I haven't had a chance to transmit,
but would like to hear about your experiences in the field
and how you did on the, on the licensing test.
Yes, and I am PO7 Ken and G5 Ken.
So yes, let's do this.
Go go go.
The following day we had the new year show with more,
more excellent links, which I promised you that I would convert.
It's too risky.
I need to ping myself about that one.
It's fine.
No, I just sent myself an email in the room and I'll do it.
It's easy enough.
So where are we?
Yes, new year show.
Again, as I said before, it was really, really strange.
You know, he started the top and the links to A or S33
and the end link is the great American for your festival.
So a typical new year show right there.
Yeah, lots of variety.
So this is one operator talks about a move from mint to rocket money
and getting scammed, basically.
This is stuff that we don't really have in my life
and come across it in Europe as much.
But I guess this is stuff that you deal with fairly commonly in the US, is it?
Yes, tons of scammers everywhere in this game.
I'll just spare everyone to run it on it, but it's everywhere.
You have done a fantastic show on Scamming and I really,
I remember now what I was doing at the time I was painting a door
and I nearly cried at like a one point in a square that they got scammed
and then the scammers call up again to say,
oh, we hear that you've been scammed.
We're from the FBI.
We'll get the money back.
Just come back.
Yes, the recovery scammers.
Yes, come back.
I'm to one, possibly in response to one of the comments,
says my audio set up and editing,
recording with the dynamic microphone,
monitoring in real time with a headphone,
and then editing it all, it all basically definitely in response to the various different
comments about the audio set up.
It's good when people go through the set up, I always find it interesting.
Oh, yeah.
That shows that he's listening.
He understands that the community is giving him feedback and he's doing what we want
other people to do.
Do a show on it.
There you go.
Add a comment.
You never know if somebody might do a show or even a series of shows.
So on the 29th, I need to keep track of the days because
Dave was always pulled me back from the edge.
My first episode by 0X0, of which was 0 binary.
I always like to hear the sources of people's handles.
This is a good one.
Introduction to HPR Codeberg up there.
Oh, well, where do I start?
Archlinix, command line, bash,
said shell, scripting.
He had me at Archvernos.
So more episodes.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Just going to the tag section, requested topics, pop them here.
And I did have a look at his Codeberg stuff.
Some very, very useful links in there.
And no commenters yet, but no doubt people will start commenting once they hear this show.
The last episode of the month was lessons learned,
moderating technical discussion panels.
So this is tips for effectively moderating tech panels.
So also no comments in this one.
But it was very useful, very useful episode.
And I got a lot of tips out of it because,
yeah, essentially that's what we're doing here, I guess.
So yes, can do better, we'll do better.
Any thoughts?
I haven't gotten to this one yet.
Okay, that's unfortunate as we have,
it's also fine, that's what happens at the end of the month.
But we can always come back to us if you leave a comment on there.
So that was pretty much all of the,
all the shows that we went through this month.
I spoiled, spoiled for having five new hosts.
Do you reckon we could beat that next month?
What do you think?
Oh, definitely.
There's a ton of people already lining up to do shows.
Yeah, we have a 120,000 subscribers monthly unique IP addresses.
So surely, surely they can't all be spammers, although.
So there were, if we go back to the main page for this episode,
HBR4371, there were eight other comments on previous shows.
The first one was the two software I use,
but the software that I use, the FUTU keyboard and the I non-reader,
INO reader by Antoine.
Archers of DC who says,
read my setup and the community show,
and he said hi Antoine.
I was listening to the community show and Ken was right.
God, there's a first.
Anyway, Ken was right.
Sorry, what was that?
Ken was right.
This would make great show or a series of shows.
Audio setups are definitely of interest Tigers,
which of course he ruined it and went ahead and did a show on that.
So I can't book him anymore.
Well done, Antoine.
And well done, Archer 72.
Oh yeah, and Archer gave us a show on his setup.
Well, I actually might have been by like a year or so ago
when he got those new Bluetooth lavalier mics and stuff.
So he's also done a show on his setup.
Yeah, and you can too.
Even if that's just a crappy microphone,
you found some app or somewhere on the F-Troid store.
Go for it.
Do you have the, oh yeah, I'll do the next one
because it's a me thing.
Gimp fixing tools.
And I just added a link to a bug report.
Yeah, that was during the show.
You added a note in there.
What was the podcast can play on Somos?
Oh yeah, that was during the show
to far the person who reported the bug on Somos.
They haven't contacted me.
So I guess I nobody who uses Somos got back to me.
So what are we going to do?
Close the bug country.
Fix.
Okay.
Our next comment comes from Dave on the Nickel Harper.
Oh, I'm so glad I'm not doing this.
I've never pronounced that.
I'm not a musician, but I've always been fascinated
with unusual musical instruments,
including the Nickel Harper.
YouTube just offered me a video about this instrument.
So I thought I'd share in case anyone else might want to see it.
And he gives the link for the YouTube video.
And Kevin O'Brien says, cool.
I love that video.
Thanks for sharing.
I also watched a video on what was very impressed.
I was nice, nice, basically a session using the Nickel Harper.
So 20 or 30 minutes, it's pretty cool.
Go watch it.
Um, so in the review of the YR01 smart lock, uh,
Windigo said, he had similar frustrations.
Thanks for the review.
I'm in a similar situation with some of my arumates and air quotes.
And this might be a good compromise.
I will never understand people who complain about locked doors and physical keys.
I know, right?
Animals, apparently.
Yes, they're using physical keys.
All right.
So we have Ron on the next comment saying the problem with pass codes.
One issue I've had, one issue I've had come across,
probably to do with grain of my memory, uh,
along with the grain of my beard.
I have been using a key fob to open my Yamari lock for the last month.
And the other day I tried to use my pin code.
And apparently I can't correctly remember it.
Yeah, that's an issue.
Yeah, that's an issue.
And then you go to the flower pot and you take the physical key from under the last
and you go and open the one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, and the last second to last comment,
transferred large data sets.
This is by Harry Larry.
Um, and Paul Jay said, thanks for this.
I need to sort out backups on my jelly fan server.
And this is useful information to help me sort it out.
Thank you.
There you go.
That right there is my, the mirrors of a show.
It's not the number of listeners.
It's not the number of subscribers.
It's the number of people who benefit from your show.
That's what sharing knowledge is all about guys.
Oh, yeah.
Or how to chuckle with radio.
The free flowing of knowledge.
That's it.
Yeah.
Or how to chuckle.
Medter day a little bit better.
And the last one, are you able to do that?
Or shall I?
Yes, this is on the, uh, uh, brief review of the Payant Add 2
by Swift 110.
We have a comment here by Kevin O'Brien,
or on the, uh, Zareason.
And I was a fan of the Zareason as well.
Unfortunately, it is one of the many businesses
that disappeared due to the COVID pandemic.
That is not good news, not good news.
But thanks for that, Kevin.
And let's move you over to the mailing.
And it was kind of, uh, we already covered
the every single, uh, EOS tap, I think.
And then we have a community news, uh,
discussions for the show.
So not a lot going on.
However, I do want to knit back to, um,
previous list.
And the, uh, we have a policy discussion,
removal of non-free CC by NC licenses.
That is still open.
And I will assume that we're doing it at this point,
because the, uh, one objection to it was, um,
it was from tattoo and, uh, he came around to,
to my view, or at least accepts the reasoning for it.
I do want to bring it to all the hosts.
So I'll be sending an email out to all the hosts, um,
over the coming period, if I remember.
And, and all that sort of thing.
But if, if you disagree with this as a concept,
then, um, now is the time to be, um,
signing up for the mail list and commenting.
Yeah, I think, I think many of the hosts ultimately said along,
you know, it's, it's great.
An idea to have the additional license,
since it like the, the non-commercial and all that.
However, you made the argument that in practice,
it, it just will not work out.
Yeah, that's it.
Like in theory, yeah.
Um, okay, so I can't believe it, but are, are we actually done?
Sounds like it.
I think that comes down to not having Scottish people here,
you know, slowing us down.
Yeah, okay, we're going to spit the hell for that one.
And that, that was pretty much it.
So, uh, thank you very much for joining, uh,
uh, uh, Scotty, sorry for, I kept you waiting there for a while.
Hope everything is, uh, better with, uh,
Kevvie, um, and yet, so, guys,
tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
