Episode: 4286
Title: HPR4286: HPR Community News for December 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4286/hpr4286.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:34:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4286 from Monday the 6th of January 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for December 2024.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 99 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows, released and comments posted in December 2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Pellan and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is HBR Community News for December 2024 and joining me this evening is...
Reito from Switzerland, once again.
And so from East Tennessee.
Welcome to you both and thank you very much for joining me here.
We're now having a series of rotating hosts and we have a currently a job opportunity for a project manager type.
To manage the community news, it's a separate little thing piece of work that can be done by somebody.
Not necessarily, you don't necessarily need to be the person coming on, but it's trying to organize that for next month you have somebody lined up, usually me and somebody else lined up at a particular time.
Do a little bit of project management to make sure that the people are available, they know what to do and the show notes are prepared.
So small enough amount of work, maybe two hours in the month, but it really is key to providing feedback to the community.
It's a most popular show by far and most people just actually tune into the show and then go back and show you pick episodes from the last month.
So a little bit of a request there for you.
HBR by the way is a community podcast where the shows are contributed from the people in the community very much like yourself.
And so without further ado, we will talk about the community news, which is a show that talks about the HBR community and the ongoing in and around the community in the last month.
We will go through the show notes, anything any comments, all the shows that were contributed in the last month, any comments that were posted discussions on the mailing list.
And finally this month, we will be thanking all the contributors who contributed shows last year and managed to get their 20, 24 New Year's resolution off the board by recording a show here for HBR.
Sooner you do it, the sooner you can say yes, I did one year's resolution. Anything else to add, Chaps?
No, perfect as always.
It's been a great year and looking forward to going through all of this.
Super duper. So without further ado, we will start with the first episode of last month, which only enough turned out to be the HBR community news, two for six, one for Monday, the second of December.
Do we want to welcome our new host?
You might do that.
Yes, you think I know how to do this, but thank you very much, Tray.
Do you want to start?
Absolutely. Thank you, John, the nice guy for contributing this month.
It was, it was interesting. Welcome as a new host.
And he's not the only one. We also have Paul Jay as a new host. Welcome.
And I was absolutely thrilled to have both of those guys on both of them.
I had the pleasure of meeting at on camp.
Paul Jay, I think very involved in the community. He's also signed up to the newsletter and John, the nice guy, who people will know from CCHit.net and all sorts of other projects.
I was actually a bit shocked when I first found out that his show came in and it was flagged as a new host show.
And I was like, how long? Why is he not in the database?
Well, apparently this was as far as show some great news there for everybody.
And you two can join. It's quite simple.
Actually, you pick up a recorder, which is usually mobile phone or something.
And if you haven't done a recording device, we have lots of old ones, nothing around here.
And we can get them to anywhere in the world.
So that's not an issue for us.
And you pick up your recorder and you say, hello, my name is say your name.
And as is traditional, I will now tell you about how I got into tech.
That's a good start off show because it allows us to get some idea of who you are as a person.
What sort of stuff you've come across and what interests you have.
And we'll also encourage us, give you ideas for the type of shows that we would like to hear from you next.
So all we ask of is one show a year.
And as Mr. X says, if we had one show a year from all our polls with more shows than we could stick out,
shake a stick out, let alone all our listeners, let alone all our subscribers.
So that is the thing.
If you believe in a free and open web, this is supporting HBR is one way to do that.
Couldn't be more free, couldn't be more open.
Everything that we have is available for download,
available as a free liberal resource license costs zero,
thanks to our donations from all our hosting providers, etc.
So that's what HBR is now.
One of the things that this show is to do is make sure that we get some feedback
to every single episode that was aired in the last month.
So let's start by going to episode two, sorry, four, two, six, one,
which was community news.
And obviously, Kevin and I didn't generate any comments.
So I fired Kevin and I replaced him with you two guys.
So no comments on that one.
And the day after that we had the DIY CO2 monitor.
And just to remind you guys about this one, this was from operator.
And as always with operator, you never really know what way it's going to go.
I thought perhaps it was going to be CO2 welding.
It might be CO2 fire suppression systems,
but it turned out to be gassing CO2 water,
with like, bubbly liquid and stuff.
Yes, as you say, total different direction than expected based on the title.
But it was interesting.
Absolutely.
So unless there's any other comments, I'm just going to move on because we've got a lot to cover this week.
So the next one was an interview that I did with Adam Matthews about the disco
agent. And this was it was a joy to meet Adam.
And this was the one of the episodes that I failed to manage to get a recording of
while I was at OK and I really enjoyed this.
Personally, this is like right up my alley.
And thank you for adding a picture because just based on the title, I had no clue
what this was about in detail.
And so yeah, I followed the links and looked a bit deeper how he built it and so on.
These interview episodes are really intriguing.
I mean, getting other people involved and being able to hear just unique things and
unique perspectives in an interactive way, I'd love to hear more interview episodes.
Yeah, just a tip for people who there are people you know, right?
Who are cool people that the world doesn't know about.
What I do now is finish work at five o'clock and then I go into a meeting room and I
organize that that person is available at that time, five o'clock.
And then we just talk for half an hour.
It adds a half an hour to my day and you're already just doing teams meetings the whole day.
So this is no biggie, really, really nice chats, little short ones.
There's no pressure on them.
You just, where'd you come from?
What's this?
I heard about you from this project.
Watch your background and see where the chat goes.
It's a really, really low level sort of easy peasy ones.
By the way, when you're posting interview ones, they always jump to the front of the queue.
So don't be, don't be worried about double shows or anything.
Just interviews, pick the first available slot.
Yeah, good stuff.
On the enough, no comments on that.
There was comments on Master Don, but we need, there's an open ticket open about
integration comments from Master Don.
There was actually a lot of buzz naturally from the other people about this.
Okay, the following day we had another one when I saw a coming in, I was going,
what is this about?
Mint cast, high crimes and misdemeanors.
And I was thinking, oh, no, somebody's going to go using HPR now as a platform to spam
and have a flame war with the mint cast.
Well, then I saw it was some guy in the internet.
So I knew there would be definitely a tongue in somebody's cheek.
So as usually something special, you know, you never really know what
Scotty's going to bring up, but it's always interesting and always intriguing.
Of interest hackers, for sure.
And over three comments to this episode.
So I'll do the first one.
We can Henrik Herman says Thunderbird.
I like this show because one, I also listen to Mint cast two.
I also use Thunderbird three.
It gave me some tips and thoughts for how to use Thunderbird even though
even better than I currently do.
Regarding my inbox, when an email thread is handled,
and if I want to keep it, my current strategy is similar to other documents.
I move them to the local Thunderbird map away from the email cloud.
That's actually very similar to what I do.
I move, move stuff to a local IMAP server.
I have already done an episode on that.
Wow, you have a local IMAP server.
Yep.
What?
Impressive.
And I mean, actually, there's a Python script that has a bare bones IMAP server.
So you can join a tiny email client and then save your files locally.
And then they become files.
And you can grab them off them.
But you can also back them up in your regular backup strategy.
That's why I do it.
Interesting.
Thank you.
And by the way, if I remember correctly,
then Scotty already had a longer episode about him and Thunderbird,
where I was totally puzzled what he can do with that.
Exactly.
So then I will read the next comment from my eat.
I hope something like that.
And the title is Mintcast and Thunderbird.
Hey, mate.
It's my eat from Mintcast here.
Oh, OK.
I enjoyed your episode on high crimes and miss, oh gosh.
Mr. Miners.
Mr. Miners about Mintcast and Thunderbird.
I was a regular user of Thunderbird until my organization
moved to exchange web servers.
When I used it, I loved it.
Maybe time to revisit it and follow your guides.
Many thanks.
And there's a third comment from Dave,
entitled Thunderbird and email management.
Hi, Scotty.
I enjoyed the show and hearing about the way you manage email.
I've been using Thunderbird since the 2000s
when the university I worked for installed central IMAP servers.
I kept using it when we started using Microsoft Exchange.
I think about the earliest time Thunderbird
had a mechanism for deleting messages
based on their age or the number in the folder.
I filter all my email arriving from several email services
into a number of inboxes to a hierarchy of folders.
For each folder with transient messages,
I right click on it and select the retention policy tab.
There is either a date-related retention policy
or account-based one.
I always enable, always keep starred messages.
This seems to be a good way to handle message deletion
for my needs and some of my filters add stars to messages
as well as sometimes tagging them before saving them in folders
with deletion rules because I really want to keep them
for a long time while I don't care about others in that folder.
Maybe I should do an about show about 30 years
plus of email experiences, Dave.
Sounds good.
Sounds good.
That would sound like an interesting show.
My approach to email is I generally delete the obvious
and keep everything else.
And I have tens of thousands of unread emails
that are still in various cloud-based email providers.
So I need to manage that much better.
I rarely get any emails nowadays.
Do you still get a lot?
Yeah, email is my preferred method of communications
and I have several different addresses dedicated
to several different things.
So it's a mess.
Hot mess, yeah.
Yep.
OK.
I guess I have most of it nowadays on this message,
messager stuff.
So the next one, 42, 65, drive-casting,
arm sleeves, glasses, and more, from some kind of need to get
again.
OK, I wasn't sure if I was in the correct window,
but I'm all right.
Part of the series general harbor freight tools.
Ah, yeah.
This was about something special that nobody,
and not everybody needs.
This one, by the way, the reason those two shows
is because it's from the reserve queue.
Meaning that people didn't submit a show.
Meaning we had to drop a lot of shows.
This one from the reserve queue.
And it's gone down from the beginning of the month
to about half of what it was at the end.
So at the end of the month where we have half the number
of reserve shows that we had at the beginning of the month.
So that's fine.
And just as I have expected that a lot of people will be
recording shows over the holiday period
or in the January months and sending them in.
That would be great.
One thing about this tool that came to my mind
when you work in the garden and your arm gets scratched
all the time when you cut trees and such things.
So I thought this would be maybe a handy way
to protect yourself as I'm not working
in the same area as Scotty does.
Or from Poisson Ivy, I'm thinking
that might be a good approach.
No comments to that show.
So Trey, do you want to do the next?
Absolutely.
The next show was, what's the weather hosted by Lee?
And weather is something that I've had a lot of interest in.
So it was neat to see his approach there
to getting some of the data.
I had never heard of seven timer.info before myself
as a weather provider.
Which is what we're many tools to use there
that I was unfamiliar with.
But I'm going to have to play with it
and see what I can come up with for getting better
and more specific information.
I still stuck somewhere in this show
because I want to follow it while looking at the scripts.
It's very interesting.
Some of the things that he's done in there.
It's not a million words from what
I've been doing over the last month.
But let's read the comment from Lee and himself, Arata,
saying having tested for different cities
I'd advise setting the default time zone to UTC
in the script, regardless of actual action.
Which is what he has done in there.
So there weren't any comments on that.
Nor were there any comments on the following day show
which is the Borderlands movie review.
And this is from Kevin reviewing the Borderlands movie.
I don't know if you guys are gamers or not.
So are you familiar with Borderlands?
None of the above, but the movie review was interesting.
I don't have much time to watch movies anymore,
but it's on my list now to check out.
OK, then the following day, we had a book review
and an EMAX rabbit hole by Enastello
where they talk about mastering EMAX
with Mickey Peterson, Peterson, sorry.
And this is generally what it sounds like,
a regular old book review.
You want to do the comment there, Trey?
Absolutely, we have a comment from Henrik
and he said, thanks for the book tip.
Thanks for the book tip about yet one more software
I am curious to check out one day myself
and eventually to become a user.
I think it is actually very nice to hear book reviews
because there's nothing better than holding
a physical book in order to learn something
or I find at least, because you can jump forward and back,
especially technical books.
But I have a shelf of books that were not great by's
and then I have that whittled down to several books
that are just thumbnails to bits or have used them so much
because they just fit my style of learning.
So it's always a good tip.
Yeah, the books I use for reference
have posted notes stuck in as tabs and markings
and the binding is thick from all the notes in them.
Have we lost each other?
No, no, no, I'm still there.
I was just thinking about it.
I mean, EMAX every time I hear about it,
I somehow feel like to try it out,
but then I have so much other things going on.
And then again, I think when you're not developing something
or if you really work like the whole day in a terminal,
probably it doesn't make sense to start with it
as I get along with the tools I already have.
Yeah, exactly.
Nobody uses EMAX anyways, right?
Everybody just uses the old command line by,
not even them, right?
Just, I mean, oh, that's just,
maybe I'm from the old man.
We just use Ed.
Ed, I once had to use when I was in Truness,
I think in the BSD to edit something.
So the next day, we had what's on my podcast,
there number two.
And if we look at the transcripts,
we'll see that this one was also from the reserve queue.
So we had five of these entire series this month.
So a whole week of shows from more than a week,
week and a half of shows from the reserve queue.
So guys, yeah, we're going to continue to do it
as long as people continue to contribute.
You don't contribute, and we stop there.
So stop the thing, everything must die.
And that's what we're going to do.
That's the agreement.
That is the janitor's covenant focus.
And we have now a list of the reserve queue shows
on what's it always there in the upload,
on the upload page on HP.
Somebody met a request, and we met an available one.
Well, as part of, we will also be making it possibly
more visible, possibly that you can listen to the episodes
possibly, but we will see.
But we will get to that during the stats.
Let's focus on the show.
Yeah.
But I thought it was a nice feature when I saw it.
And I really comment on this one, because it's more.
Just one second.
Ahuka is, I just listened today to his fourth episode.
He's really focused on three or four topics,
and has the same podcasts like The Beatles.
The guy in the box, what is it?
Dr. Hu, yes, correct.
And history?
And history, correct.
And some political ones thrown in there.
But you know, that's what's in this podcast,
where he's not making any hand science fiction.
Hand science fiction.
Yes, yes, yes.
He's not making any apologies for it.
That's what he likes listening to.
You tell us what you like listening to.
I think.
Yeah, I was just thinking about it.
How many?
How many?
Yes, that's the same.
That was what was impressive to me.
But he said some of them already died in the past, probably.
Yeah, but like there are some podcasts that, you know,
don't age just, you can go back to them
and still get the earners of useful information from them,
especially his historical podcasts and stuff.
Sure.
And it gives us a good perspective for those of us
that may listen to podcasts and other topics
to possibly branch out and experience some new things.
And if we have listeners that those aren't of interest
too, but they listen to other things,
that's, hey, a great opportunity for them
to record their own show about their podcasts.
Exactly.
And that's why we have you on here, Tray.
Sorry, folks, if you're listening to this and you're
just talking over each other, it's a time
like a mumble, not only because we go across the states
and come back, we're not intentionally
being rude here.
So we have one comment from Randomly.
I'd like to do that just in a second.
All right.
Well, you can read it and I'll respond to it.
OK, OK, let's do it that way.
OK, so from random listener, a request
for a bit more info in the show notes.
Hello, thank you for the recommendation
and direct links in the show notes.
Maybe I request a bit more info about each link in the future.
They are uninformative themselves.
It would be helpful to have, at least,
the podcast title included before the link
for quick reverence after listening.
And yes, that was the show notes.
But I think the point of this was that hookers just
got a quick and easy episode to fire off the links.
And yes, RSS is not that easy to read,
but unfortunately, we can't edit all the show notes.
We don't have the time to do that,
but if you want to, Panyone wants to send in updates
for particular show notes, feel free to do so.
We'd appreciate that.
I'm also very grateful that he even
added the links in the show notes
because some of the podcasts simply have nothing.
I mean, there is no need that you have to give some links.
And here we have quite a few I have to say.
Although we do have for the free culture podcast,
which is another project that a sister project
related to this one, we have a tool
that will based on the RSS link will go out and gather
all that information and create some options.
So that is something we're also looking
for volunteers to help out there.
Basically, the whole theme of this year
will be to get more volunteer help with HVR.
So it essentially moves from being a few people
here in the back end to being a community
on the moment.
But we'll be reaching the end.
What we will hear more about at the end
when we go to the emails.
Okay, do you want to do the next show then?
Okay, show 4270,
playing civilization for part four from Huka.
Yeah, again, about this computer strategy game.
Yeah, on the straight, are you a gamer?
Because as we find out, Dave can and I am not,
well, what about you?
I'm not a gamer either,
but this does remind me of some of the games
that I may have played back in the early days
when computers were small and slow,
some of the interactive games.
So this has taken that to a whole new level
and it's very exciting to hear what he can do
and what are some of the things that can be done in it.
But I don't have the time to invest in games right now.
I wish I did, I wish I had the time.
That's where we need Kevin back.
So I might come back next to that.
Anyway, Kevin is a gamer, so that was useful.
But even this, it's more interesting from the point of view
of I am getting quite a bit from these games
because he is going into a strategy games,
how they work and the style of play and stuff.
So I've been gaming,
gaining a lot of it, particularly with my son
and his friends, start going on about describing
their tabletop gaming and their strategies that they use.
So I feel hip and trendy.
Thank you, thank you, a hookah for that.
So beginner's guide to Proxmox,
this was a show by Owl and I genuinely did not know
what the license for Proxmox was
and I was actually steering away from it as a result
because it sounds to me like a,
I had the feeling that it was like an insurgification
who is going to happen,
but the license is quite a good IGPL as far as I can tell
and this was a great little episode
on how to get it on running and working.
What did you guys think?
Well, he did more and more about Proxmox lately,
especially with some of the changes in licensing
for some of the other virtualization solutions
that are out there.
So this is something I might have to dip my toes in
and give a try.
Yeah, I think since it was brought come or something
like that since they bought the shop,
if I'm not mistaken, or if it was another one, a big one.
The thing with Proxmox is I installed it a couple of years ago
and I just let it go on my device
and let it take over the whole hard disk
as I had it at the day and I had really a hard time
to get my hard disk back and the thing is,
I think it does an LVM,
so large volume management on it.
And well, I don't know if this is still like that,
but I wasn't aware of it at that day, maybe 10 years ago
and it took me really more than an hour
to get my hard disk back and to format it again
the way I wanted to.
Based this Proxmox and Debian,
and unless you want to,
you don't have to pay for it as far as I know.
I seem to be developer edition,
community edition and developer edition.
And my fear with that is that
even though it is licensed openly,
over time, less and less can be put into the community edition
and more and more requires the developer edition
or the paid for it.
But it's not as, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm wrong, we'll see.
And there are no comments on that episode, shall we move on?
Sure, next one is 42.72, embedded Mustadon threads.
I'm reconstructing the development process,
writing embed Mustadon threads.
This is from Harry Larry.
He is famous, I think, for his only text,
what do you call programs?
Yeah, plain text programs.
Not a one.
Yes, and it was, well,
yeah, I don't know, I'm not so much in Mustadon.
Are you more familiar with it?
I was just yesterday.
No, this was quite interesting on many ways
because we're also looking at integrating Mustadon threads
with into the commenting system.
So we have a blog open about that.
So this was good to see.
And I followed the links to this with interest.
So I said myself way in my,
so I have commented on this.
When, Myers, where did I hear that name before?
And when was my first ever interview
for the whole way track here in HBO,
along, although to be fair,
it was a beer garden track that day.
And I give a link to HBO 8.04,
when, Myers, from Pit and the Conceptions at Aug Campa.
Quite a while ago, indeed.
And we've got another comment from Henrek,
entitled, how is the post behavior
on Mustadon reflected on the website?
Embedding Mustadon threads is something
that I have an interest in doing myself.
I have a question about how a post behaves on the website
in relation to how it evolves at Mustadon.
A post is posted to Mustadon.
After it has been posted, several actions may occur.
One of them or multiple of them.
The post is edited.
The post is replaced with another post,
example, deleted and a new post is posted
using the built-in function or manually two steps.
The post is deleted, or the post is automatically
deleted after, for example, 100 days.
How is this reflected on the website?
And how is it wanted to be reflected on the website?
These are all very interesting questions.
I didn't realize you had so much power within Mustadon.
It's also very interesting.
And that's why if we take comments from Mustadon
and add them to our common database,
and somebody then deletes them, what do we do?
Which is exactly why we need to be sure of the license
when we're putting them in as comments to the database.
So that whole discussion, I think I have a solution for.
We need explicit permission.
And if we were, this is aside from this tool,
but if we were bringing them into the HBR database itself,
then you would explicitly be giving us permission to do that.
So that's it.
And then there is another comment by myself.
Plain text is not.
When you talk about plain text, this short information
is absolutely key.
Then I left a link to a YouTube.
What is it called when somebody's on the stage
and is holding a speech or something like that?
And he speaks about 30 to 40 minutes
about problems in plain text.
And until you have heard that,
you have no clue how deep the rabbit hole is.
Yeah.
OK, cool.
Let's move on.
Next day, improving videographic with basic manual settings.
And I need to re-encode this particular episode,
which is, as of by the way, how I learned to stop worrying
and know the exposure triangle.
This was an excellent episode, because it made me
not fear photography as much as I do what I do.
It was a great episode.
I downloaded his website that he linked to for to his guide.
Because I really appreciate tips here
like the aperture and how you go into manual settings
and just give you the basic to have a good feeling
when you do so.
And we all know this films that we see
in where the cameras change from warm light to cold light
and things like that.
And so it's really one that should be stored.
Exactly.
And the way he approached the episode
was no hanging fruit.
So this number one is going to buy you the most 50% of the way
there, and set the camera to full manual.
Lighting number one, 50% of the way,
set the camera to full manual, 75% of the way,
then diminishing return source.
It's stuff anybody can do?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Years ago, I had a photography course
and the instructor forced us to use manual for all
of our pictures in the course.
And it really forces you to understand what's happening
and why, whereas when you have your camera set
for certain things to be automatic,
you never really know why it's making the changes
or what effect it's going to have.
So it's really good.
It definitely helps you best understand
what you're getting from it.
It's loads of fun.
Not to forget getting out of focus.
I had, like in the BBC, which is well known,
but in Switzerland, and all the camera guys,
they have to set the focus manually
because the automatic focus would go out of how to focus.
Yeah, I really wish there was a way
to do manual focus on things like my phone
because auto focus is the bane of my existence.
Any time I try to do video on my phone.
Yeah.
Who does next?
I can take it.
Yeah, go for it.
So the next one was from Archer 72.
And he experienced quite a serious accident.
And it was interesting to hear what he experienced
and the fact that he had the presence of mine
to record some of his interactions thereafter.
And our thoughts and prayers are with him
as he continues to recover.
Absolutely.
And I was just, he was very, very lucky.
Very, very lucky.
Cardinals are not, but he was just very lucky.
I had a quick chat with him on the new years chat on HPR.
And he asked him where he had the mobile
while he was recording it.
And obviously he was still in the car
and kept it somewhere there and set it to record
so that he kind of had a memory of what was going on back then
because it was quite, well, I was wondering
how this is going on, how you can record that
in the next, after an accident.
It was quite a lot of pain here of my role play.
God.
Yes.
Yeah.
Man, there's started your scoff out there
where he lives, I reckon.
I've been crying like somebody who's crying a lot.
Yeah, but he turns on his mobile to record it.
It wasn't really, yeah, brilliant.
So we have a comment from by SoulSpider.
And he says, I'm Mark's hospital room stalker.
Mark, it was an honor meeting you in person
in your hospital ER and rehab rooms.
Thank you for sharing exactly what happened to you
and what you've been going through.
Once we get through this hectic holiday season,
we shall indeed meet again.
And as you said, it's only a 30-minute drive.
But I am not sure how safe the roads are around Cincinnati.
And K.Y., I think he's talking about the Kentucky area,
Cincinnati borders, Ohio, or is that the border
between Ohio and Kentucky?
Not sure.
I guess this was a reference to where the accident was about.
I believe to where he was hospitalized.
And Paul Jay says, thanks for sharing.
Mark, good to hear you on the road to recovery.
Thanks for sharing your experience
and the background information.
Best wishes from 2025, Paul.
And 4275 from Ahuka.
What is on my podcast player?
2024, part three.
This is an update on the podcast Ahuka listens to.
Yeah, as we had the topic before,
this is again where he's reading from his OPML list.
What podcast he is enjoying.
Space rocket history was one that's sprung out of me there.
They're going through all the space launches,
one by one, that's cool.
Still in the Soviet era.
So yeah, plenty of time to catch up.
So the next day operator got poned.
Yes, it could happen to anyone I was kind of gone.
Yeah, I would not.
I don't know if I would have shared this
and John the nice guy says,
are there somebody want to do it?
Shall I do the cover?
But before you go into it,
if you say who wants to share it,
what wasn't it?
KitLab or anybody, any other company who did share it?
And I think heise.de, the German one.
They, well, not directly poned,
but yeah, well, what happened to them?
And it's good information for others
to protect yourself or to not get into trouble as much.
Exactly.
So he lunged on the short of it.
He had left port open and then he had gotten
some strange PayPal account.
So the brute forced his port and they got in
and he was able to, it wasn't too bad,
but he kept track of it.
And this is a run down on us.
John the nice guy says, exposed ERDP.
At least it wasn't VNC, which I did, and VPN.
Hey, glad to hear you recorded your assessment
of this incident.
Firstly, great work on detailing your troubleshooting steps.
It's good to see someone's top process in action.
Also, I'm not a window assist admin.
So someone in some of your suggestions were really interesting.
You said about talking about our worst breaches.
It wasn't horrific.
But I left VNC open on the machine.
I used to play media at home on around 2010.
My first sign was that someone had opened a web browser
on the desktop, which I never did.
So I could see that they were just using it
to browse for content that were blocked from accessing.
It wasn't even dodgy stuff, just personal sites.
I revealed the machine turned off ERDP,
but that gave me a real scare.
You say about using a VPN, but needing to make sure it's up to date.
Can I suggest you look at one of the mesh VPN products
like tailscale, nebula, or netbird?
I use tailscale to provide remote support to my aunt
and to share content on my home network via proxy to my VPS.
At work, I'm investigating netbird, which
is similar to tailscale, but has the control pain hosted
on a web server you control.
I previously used nebula, but after one mishap with a PKI,
I realized I couldn't trust myself to run.
That's in the way that I needed to be managed.
I guess it needed to be managed.
All the very best, and thanks again for your content.
Good shoulder, John.
If people don't realize just how open they are without multi-factor
on protocols like RDP, especially when using passwords like he had there
that were easily brute-forced.
It's good for everybody to get a little bit of a wake up call.
Where have I set something that I've used for years and forgot about
and might just be the next target for something like that?
Exactly.
Just today, I was thinking about watching a video about how to set up a proxy server.
So to get the services behind.
Good episode right there.
And we have a new episode now from the introduction episode by Paul J.
And again, welcome, very good episode.
Lots and lots of comments on this one.
Peter, I'm basically an introduction.
Have a listen, or have a read.
If you want to go through the transcripts, let's see some stuff.
I found interesting was background in material engineering.
I couldn't pick up exactly what it was.
So I had to go back and listen to it on the laptop at 1X speed.
He's spectrum 16K, mainframe computers, huge hard drives and stuff.
So yeah, interesting.
I'm preparing a list of shows.
If you have anything in these new host introduction shows that you would like to hear about,
pop it in the comments, much appreciate it.
Speaking of comments, Peter Prastersman says,
welcome, Paul, to you.
For our greetings, Paul, it was a pleasure to listen to your introduction
and your deep buried history through computing.
We are now one-on-one with shows and I really need to plan my next one soon.
I'm off to work for the next seven days and although I do have some plans,
I am sure I get squeezed in some time.
Our common points of interest are the Amstrad PCW8256
amazing machine for its time.
And then some guy named Tray left a comment.
He said, welcome to the community.
You bring a diversity of experiences and I look forward to learning from your future episodes.
And Paul says, thanks Peter.
Thanks for the welcome.
I also need to consider a topic for the next show.
As you say, the PCW8256 was a great little computer
and I made good use of it in university and afterwards.
In many ways, I probably loved my Amiga more.
I cannot understand that.
So that was such a fantastic computer and so ahead of its time.
By the way, about Amiga, there are some nice documentaries about it.
Also make a good show, review of Amigo Documentary.
Well done, Kevin.
I have one job.
This is what I do.
Paul Jay also said, thanks Tray.
Thanks for the kind comments.
We're getting close to the end.
Oh, and did you see that sneaky kebbi guy right what he did?
Pi, power, Christmas tree and Christmas day.
Did you see?
That took some planning.
I mean, the amount of planning involved in that.
You have to order it on time, deliver it out to the remote islands of Scotland.
Very, very sneaky.
And it looks like a fund of ice, I'm happy to see if I can get a holder one.
I wish I was that organized.
I don't care if he is, I was actually jokered with him a master,
but it just happened.
And then he saw that it was free, so the slot was free, so he popped it in there.
But yeah, nice, nice little episode.
And part of his ongoing series on the Raspberry Pi now,
this should actually, we need to take all these short zones and put them into
their own series, I guess.
No comments enough, it was hardly surprising towards the end of the month.
And also hardly surprising giving that it's Christmas and holiday time for most people.
And we have another episode of a hookah describing the contents of his podcast player.
And it is really exciting to see the diversity of things that are there.
And some interesting things that maybe want to go back and give a listen.
Yeah, it's a good, it's one of these ones where I'm thinking of somebody says,
I want some podcasts recommended from my history, then you know,
you can go back here and refer them to a hookah as I have done in the past.
So good stuff.
And the next day was they, another one from a hookah,
because I was a reserve show and this was a schedule show.
Isaac Amos, at the moment, the foundation,
easy for me to say not so much actually.
It was a comment there, I was falling over the tea,
the Irish accent with all the trees, 3,333 trees.
Anyway, I do my best with my execution.
Isaac Azimov, the foundation, look at the writings of Isaac Azimov and I had recently
gone back and reread all the stories from Isaac Azimov,
because he was a favorite of mine growing up.
I must have been actually an hindsight,
somebody else in the library, because that's where I got all the bugs from.
Yeah, this past year I went through the foundation trilogy again,
or the whole foundation series, not just the original trilogy,
but on audiobooks and it was a lot of fun.
Yeah, I find it.
Yeah, so I just told these guys not to be waffling on
before the show and here I'm off in the show, so.
So then I go by coming number two.
Yeah, good for you.
Okay, from Kevin O'Brien, O'Kah, O'Kah, thank you.
I'm a huge fan of Azimov, and over the years,
I cannot guess how many times I have read the original trilogy,
but over 20 seems like a plausible number.
Wow.
I plan to continue the series with more golden age,
science fiction, and more Doctor Who.
And I don't imagine I will ever run out of material.
Very good.
I think he mentioned something about 200 books at one time,
or did I miss hear that?
I don't know, there were a lot of Azimov books,
not as we said.
No, that that O'Kah has had on his shelf.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And also I, as well believe it.
Crazy amount.
No, that's a normal bookshelf, dude.
My son doesn't mind.
Avid Reader, and he's now working,
started a job in the library.
Every morning I wake up, I know my email is working
because it's like late.
Please return these books and a whole list of books for the day.
Because he works there, he can take out more than normal.
It is for him, it's like it's dream job.
We go to the next one.
4281, my ridiculously complicated DHCP setup at home.
This is about how I set up my DHCP server at home
from John the Nice Guy.
I just listened to it today,
and it is not just that DHCP,
it is like the history over his DHCP setup.
And at some point he mentions over-engineering.
Smidgen, although personally I find having 1024 devices
on your network perfectly normal.
Yes, yes, yes, I was also wondering how big that house is
and how many people live there.
All I was told, what is he doing?
He said, oh, I exceeded the 254 limit.
What are you doing with 254?
But then if you do start getting into home automation,
you know, each of those little IoT devices
start consuming IP addresses.
So all the bulbs start having an IP address,
all the circuits which just start having IP addresses.
So yeah, it can pile up, I guess.
And I was amazed at how many he had assigned static addresses to
that I would lose track of all of those and lose my mind.
But he had a cool tool, actually.
I went through every single link of this,
brilliant links in the show notes, by the way.
And it was the first episode to be submitted
with a new WizzyWig Editor,
so that pulled out the last few remaining hairs that I had.
No, that was a lovely job, but just the whole story.
But there was a cool open source tool for tracking,
keep in track of your IP addresses.
And the integration is with Ansible,
or kill, in order to look up the IP address look up.
But Ansible, there it is, link 19.
Okay, yeah, I'm not sure if he does that,
if this is also his working in this area.
Yeah, I think Thomas on the admin have been podcast as well.
And by the way, when you mentioned IOT devices,
there you can go, you can dive really deep,
that the bulb can only talk to Alexa,
but not to anything else.
And Alexa can only talk to blah, blah, blah.
And you can really dive into it.
And we have one comment on the show from Paul Jay.
It says, welcome and thanks, great show.
I need to do this at home, having come across some of the issues
with DNS that you experience.
My first pie whole effort, a couple of years back,
was not so good.
But that was definitely down to my lack of knowledge.
I will take the opportunity to browse through your setup,
and I am sure I will learn.
Thanks for sharing everything.
Looking forward to your next show.
Happy New Year, Paul.
Great stuff.
Thank you, Paul.
And thank you, John.
Fantastic first episode.
Don't be waiting my years now to send me the next one.
Thank you very much.
So the last show of the year, the image is there, yes.
The last show of the year was from Trey.
And Trey, you have no idea how much that image killed me
because we had a, it was there to help you troubleshoot
Wizzy Wig stuff.
Exactly, exactly.
I don't look at that.
All these shows we were posting at the last minute,
midnight.
And as a result, there were some issues
with the commenting system because the common systems
assumes that the shows are available before posting them.
That's a good thing.
It fails us.
But aside from all of that, when I actually did settle down
and listen to it, because we don't listen to the shows
until after the shows are posted,
this is actually something that is very much of my alley.
And I have been following this sort of thing,
and I was thinking, oh, you're going to run into problems now
because of the soccer breaker fuse thing
that you missed that you needed to have.
So it was great to hear how you got around the neutral,
ground neutral shunts thing.
Indeed.
Yeah, it was loads of fun.
And hopefully fingers crossed, I don't
have to use it this coming weekend.
We've got another ice storm heading this way.
Yeah, but if you have it, you won't have to use it.
So I was, and I was thinking, you mentioned at the end
of the episode, like, how to think about your survival plans.
And yeah, it's no harm to do that.
You know, I've been here in the Netherlands
like where I work, where nine meters below water.
Yeah, no harm to have a little bit of a plan.
Doesn't have to be a great plan,
but have some form of a plan.
So obviously, there's no comments on that,
but tune in next month, and there will be no doubt
more comments about that.
And it's a great series.
What are you doing?
There are some simple steps that you could be doing to just
deal with issues that will occur, you know,
for one reason or another without getting too political
or commenting on anything, just in case,
the mirrored hits the windmill history practice used to say.
So that was the last show of 2024.
Go ahead over.
And you just mentioned that there may be comments,
maybe comments coming in next month.
And I thought that was a great segue for the comments
that we had come in from things that we missed last month.
Oh, that's because I'm a professional.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Speaking of which, comments from last month,
note to volunteers, these are comments for shows last month.
They were not read the last show because they arrived
on or after the day of recording started.
This section will be removed before the show notes are released.
Thanks, Dave.
I know it always irritates them when they read that out.
So, oh, yes, this is, and it's stuff like this
that somebody needs to help us with.
Well, I knew you'll also comment on Delta rays show HPR 870.
And that's back in 2020, 2011, December 2011, actually.
Delta ray looks back at his early computing experiences.
And the commenter is Solus Spider.
Thanks, Delta ray, for your computer experience broadcast
on your 2011 show.
Going by your days, I believe I am about one decade older
than you at the age of 57 now.
My first computer was in 1983, and ORIC1, 16K,
British based 65 or two machine.
Our first communal commonality in the timeline is an Amiga.
I owned 1,200, and also a CDTB fun machines.
I did add an internal hard drive to the 1,200,
and later moved it and moved it all to a tower.
I still have it, but it has not been powered on in many years.
My work, American wife, as opposed to his otherwise,
and her brother co-owned a Commodore in 128.
It currently sits in my computer room
covered along with the 1,084 monitor,
two floppy disk servers on the printer.
It's a great system, and one I really should fire up again.
I did have some experience with CPM,
with the Namstrad PCW8256, and the PCW8512,
but my parents owned for their business.
Thanks for the memories made.
And it looks like Solus Spider was spending some time
catching up on older episodes.
He also posted a comment to Ken's episode
on Tesseract Optical Character Recognition,
where he said, apologies for the misspelling of Tesseract
in my previous comment.
The next comment is on the HPR Show 3998 from 2023,
using open source OCR to digitize my mom's book by Delta Ray.
This is again Solus Spider,
and it says Greetings Delta Ray, so please to meet you.
My own experience with Tesseract OCR software
is via my volunteer work with Mission Assist.
Mission Assist is a UK-based charity.
I volunteer for them as a digit, gosh,
digitization, keyboard, receiving PDF scans
of Bibles and notebooks from people, groups,
all over the world, and typing the chat
to text into struct text file.
Then his puts in a link.
Tesseract is a wonderful tool that helps me
with a lot of the process, obtaining a text file,
and then working directly on it.
Since I run KDE, I use Bactical to highlight the area
of the PDF I want to convert into a PNG file for Tesseract
to read.
A lot of the scans we receive are not exactly straight,
often in columns, have ink marks, and bleed
through from the other side.
So not always a straightforward OCR process.
I save these files with chapter and diverse references
in the title.
Once I have set the PNG files from my allocated chapter,
I simply run Tesseract per file to create a text file.
I then use CATCAT to collect text files into one file
to work on.
Your show was really more about using Bash
and especially the Grap command to process your project.
I learned a lot from that alone.
Thanks for the education.
Checked your HPR profile and was not surprised.
You are the guy behind at Climatic.
I did follow you on Twitter, but left at the buyout.
So glad to know you are on Macedon,
and I followed that account today.
I do plan, recording my own show
about my use of Tesseract as I volunteer with Mission Assist.
But given my current workload and other reasons,
I am looking at some time in the new year of 2025.
And Henrik had a show my tribute to Feeds.
And he is just thanking Peter for feedback
on the previous comment.
I was happy to hear that Peter sold the benefits of all RSS.
And we have another comment from Solar Spider
on episode 4195 by Ken, hacking HPR hosts.
In the comment he says, Ken, you personally asked for this comment.
You also hacked this host.
Thank you for the instructions and reasoning behind them.
Totally appreciate them.
Glad to be a host, commenter, and listener of HPR.
Super, super, indeed, super.
And the comment by Kavie about audio streams
on the comment line from Kavie.
And the comment is from Henry Cameron.
Thanks, Kavie, for the comment line tip.
I tried CVLC player, and it works.
I'm not a heavy comment line user, but I like it.
And it is inspiring to learn from your knowledge.
There you go.
That's the point.
Birds of a feather talk at my left from Thai,
one of my favorite episodes of the year, because it's community
doing what the community does best.
And it's from Thorsten Doyle, sorry for buttering a show.
Hey, guys, great show.
By the way, what does OLF mean?
Thanks.
And that's the Ohio Linux Festival, OLF, Ohio Linux Festival.
Also writing and around the Cincinnati area.
Cincinnati is getting a lot of publicity in this episode.
You don't have to pay shorting.
All right, and we have a comment on Solar Spider's episode
with the introduction of introduction and history
of using computers.
And the comment is from Henrik.
He says, Peter, welcome as a host to Hacker Public Radio.
You mentioned ICQ in this episode.
I also used ICQ back in the days.
I think they can be seen as one important forerunner
to where we are today with chat softwares.
Ah, yes.
ICQ, fond memories of challenges with ICQ.
And another comment on the show from Henrik Amrin
with the title, Why digitize photos?
It's from Henrik himself, thanks for the comment.
I've been struggling.
I've been struggling still ongoing to details
to why, what I have, what I want to achieve.
So if my thinking, web reading, and other sources
can work as a knowledge sharing, I am pleased.
And good luck for any digitized journey.
You may travel.
The digitizing is one thing.
The other thing is then to find it again.
Yeah, that's a valid point.
Now, I'm just wondering this past show,
there was one comment on previous shows.
Barnier, have you read that last month?
Teller user, Barnier, and the leap laptop.
Greetings, Windigo.
A very similar story of how we use Barrier
after both using synergy users.
No, if we haven't read it, I'll read it then here.
As comments about Bysolus Fighter again, I'm Windigo.
Greetings, Windigo.
A very similar story about how we started using Barrier
after both of us being using synergy users.
My main use of Barrier is on my home, not most of it,
between my desktop PC, running PC Linux OS,
and host and laptop running Solus as a client.
I've reached the Solus update Barrier disappeared.
Discovered in the upload blog that Barrier
have been forked to a new name named input leap.
Our site is GitHub, input leap, input leap.
The site states, input leap is a fork of Barrier
by Barrier's active maintainer.
Currently Barrier is considered unmented.
PC Linux OS have yet to make this change,
but it's great news that input leap,
and Barrier work together seamlessly.
I did notice that you also recorded this show,
HPR 4192, or KVM software, sounds like a good solution
to a specific keyboard issue,
look forward to listening to that show.
And then we think we've already covered all the comments
from there.
So let's move the over to the mere list discussion.
Can you read out the polls comment?
And I can do my response.
OK.
Do we have a title here?
Yes, it's HIPRQ News 4261.
Oh, right, thanks.
Hi, Ken.
I have a couple of queries following the community news episode
for November 1.
Do you point out in the notes and comment during the show
that you have completed the HPR documentation Wiki?
How do I find this?
Is it integrated into the web page?
Secondly, or do you want to answer that one first?
No, far ahead.
And then there's a third on us all in the next comment.
Can you read that?
OK.
Then next one.
If I wanted to contribute to the code in the repo,
I understand I need to generate a poll request
against a relevant repo.
Would I need an account on the repo?
An honesthost.net?
And I did create an account, but my account
is currently marked, sign in, prohibited.
I promise to have my introduction show done
and delivered in December, regards poll, please, Ken.
Yeah, and then there's one more comment.
All right, sorry.
Yeah, can you read that?
That's what you meant by the next one, OK?
OK.
And the other question, where is the website's specification?
You wanted to comment on.
OK.
And thanks for the reminder, I said.
So I updated this.
We currently have a flutter, which is
commons, HPR source code.
And then that points to repo, does an honesthost.net,
forward slash HPR will give you all the repositories.
And if you build there, you should see one, two, three,
four repositories that we maintain.
HPR documentation, general documentation stuff.
If your generator is the static site
generator that downloads the database,
converts it into sqlite, and from that generates static pages,
which we then are synced back up.
And the HPR tools is tools that we use to process the show
and all sorts of background stuff for doing maintenance
and changing metadata and all sorts.
And then the HPR hub is the stuff that we have
on the web server in order to the PHP scripts
that we use in order to generate the RSS feeds,
but also to take in the shows, do the whole show submission
process and management of shows, et cetera, stuff like that.
Anything that's dynamic is on the hub.
Anything that's static is HPR generator.
HPR tools is the tools.
And HPR documentation is the documentation.
Simple enough?
OK.
So I wanted to contribute code to the repo.
I understand that you need pull requests from relevant repo.
Yes, you do.
It's just first creating.
So if you're doing general take, if you're
first creating an issue and discussing
as with us on the matrix channel, point to that.
Once you have a quest ready, see HPR 3797,
how to submit static changes to HPR where
a role shows Ken how to submit static changes in there.
Would you need in the content and re-boin on the source
of that?
Yes.
But there are loads of spam accounts created every day.
So I will need to approve them unless I will not approve them
unless you contacted me and ask it to be created.
I just added notes to the documentation
with you about this.
I just approved his account.
And he promises the show.
He promises the show.
Ken, for now, for now, it has written
a sociality.
And then I put in all you all as a show.
That's supposed to be like a preacher going.
So it has written sociality.
And then everybody stands off of those you all as a show.
I know we all leave.
But I think Kevin Cummins says working out of it.
Yes, he is because Kevin Ahuga has submitted
a lot of shows since then.
Yeah, I think you made the joke, huh?
Yeah.
And then we have a comment from Paul saying
he's recorded his introductory show.
And uploaded it scheduled for December 24th.
So we've already discussed that.
And the website comments involve podcast swim lane.
I suggest the order should reflect the frequency of clicks.
So listen, subscribe, then record, and schedule.
Possibly separate consumption from creation visually.
Otherwise, looks good.
Best regards, Paul.
Yeah.
Ken, in which area of the website is he talking about?
I tried to follow, but I couldn't.
As you go to the HBR repo, you go to the documentation.
And then you land at the HBR documentation.
And it says a place to keep HBR documentation
reads the developer information before he contributes.
And you don't need to do that because yes, you do need to do that.
But if you listen on Monday, we will be actually
is it today?
Yes, today.
Yes, today, in fact, I released a show reading that page
and going through it.
So you need to read that.
Or you can listen to the show.
And there on that page, we have developer information, which
also says that you need to contact us on matrix and whatever
information about the CCDN, which is community content
delivery network or murder network.
The HBR website design, it's the third one there.
And then once you click on that, you'll see website page.
And you'll see a whiteboard illustration.
And I'll put the top.
We're going to have the HBR menu.
It's a proposal, splash logo, where the HTTP and the Aurora
are going to be still clickable and they go to the Easter eggs.
A short, who, where, what, and why?
And then the podcast swim lane, the top one, record, schedule,
subscribe, listen.
So he's suggesting, listen would be on the other side.
But I'm kind of more thinking, this
is the process by which you're doing it.
We're not, we're not, we're not like normal podcasts where
you're pushing that listen button because you're after
subscribers, we're actually after hosts.
So the most important one for me is the record button.
That's the first thing that you should see.
And you should deliberately be triggered into seeing something
different than you would expect, because HPR is different
than the normal podcast, because you can record.
You can schedule, you can subscribe, and you can listen.
So that's kind of why I had it that way.
And then underneath that, we would have other things,
like the host, the series, the about any other,
any other stuff like that.
And then rather than having all the shows on the main page,
we would just have one-liners of the latest episodes
and one-liners of the latest time.
And then underneath that, the license information.
So that's what's on the whiteboard.
Again, underneath that is like a PowerPoint theme,
giving you the idea of what the recording would be like.
So you record, you schedule, it goes to the RSS feed,
and then you can listen.
And then I have underneath that,
described what would be on the main menu.
So home would link to, link you back always.
So, and then upload, download, and about,
essentially, that would be it.
Upload will go to the calendar, download will be go to
syndication where you can download stuff and about,
tell you stuff about the project.
The banner logo, HH, has now goes to correspondence,
P goes to the comment viewer,
an hour will go to the syndication or RSS feed.
And then the welcome should be out of lock,
some punchy welcome texts saying,
this is in a nutshell why HPR is Hacker Public Radio
as a podcast, releases shows every weekday,
Monday to Friday, shows a contributor,
by the public can be any topic,
that's an interest to Hacker, et cetera, et cetera.
And then this one remains.
Okay, so I'm looking for comments on that.
I'm genuinely, I'm looking for comments.
And I'm actually surprised, given all the feedback
and complaints I've had down through the years
of people saying, ooh, the website's crap,
the more people are commenting on it.
There seems to be like, it's a lot easier for people
to complain than it is to do some constructive.
And from now on, if somebody's complaining
about the website, this has been three months open now,
and we've had two people comment on it in total.
So guys, if you want, you know,
if you want to be able to complain about the website
of the future, now is your chance.
Cause after this, you know,
it's basically put up or shut up, you know,
just even going, yeah, that seems good
or something will be nice to have some sort of feedback on it.
Yeah, was that too negative?
Was that too negative, guys?
No, that was absolutely fine.
That was positively negative or negatively,
it was good.
Okay, fine, so yeah.
Now, the next two threads seem to discuss
the New Year's Eve show that recorded a couple days ago.
So I'm not sure if we need to go through those.
No, but we did.
Yeah, maybe people don't know what.
So good details on how to use mumble
and how to how to participate as part of the annual
New Year's Eve shows.
And that why I'm here because I got to get mumble working
and can now be part of the community show.
So yeah, for the, cause we have the,
yeah, sorry, I'm just looking for some text.
Give me two seconds on the location.
Drunk yet silence will remove the side.
Yeah, I do kind of want to read out,
read out some of this because people who are not familiar
with the New Year show,
it might just be useful for next year,
cause I'm also looking for a volunteer
who will be available towards the end of the year
to do a little bit of work on this.
There's not really a lot to do because it's mostly done
by the living slowcast guys.
So what we had on the website was welcome
to the 13th annual 26 hour New Year's Eve show
welcoming every time zone in the world
with a link to all 36 serves 38 times zones.
If you keep talking, we'll keep recording.
For those who don't know the New Year show
will be recorded from then to then
and we have done that.
We had a live stream,
we had a recording on a place
where you could add to the show notes
and we also had a GITC server which was interesting.
So the GITC server was only for video.
So the audio was still gone through mumble
but if you wanted to see the people,
you could see them on GITC
and it was amazing how well they without any synchronization
between the two applications,
how the voices lip sync was spot on.
So the show notes,
so the history about this was,
it was suggested by Koki in 2011 as podcasting tends
to be a one way conversation.
He thought it would be nice to get all
the Floss Linux freculture podcasters
and listeners in one place to get together
and chat with person.
Initially it was time to be just a few hours
but we kept missing members from other parts of the world.
The show was extended to welcome every time zone
to the New Year,
which actually turns out to be 26 hours.
So we record at least 26 hours
and keep the recording room for an after show.
So many years,
the after show has been longer than the show itself
and while this is on the HPR website,
this is entirely community initiative
which is heavily supported by the fine folks
at the Linux Logcast
and the server of course is provided by Delwin
and there's links there to this server that we use as well.
So ground rules that we had,
it is no harm to go through.
So there were use push to talk and the headset
with so many people on the chat,
we must use push to talk.
You all see use a headset
so your audio in the room does not feedback.
If there's a problem with your setup,
please drop and listen to the stream,
trying to correct poor audio and paused
is a lot of work that someone else will have to do.
People like, when you enter the room,
please know not interrupt ongoing conversations.
Wait for a pause in the conversations and say hi.
It's quite common for people you might not know to join
as they wish to speak to other people in the room.
They may have been waiting all year for the chance to meet.
So please give them the space to have these conversations.
Do not announce the time zones.
There are so many time zones
there's no need to interrupt the conversation with everyone.
Don't feel that they're so relaxed, meet up.
Don't feel better.
Don't monopolize conversation.
You are a guest and let's see see by it say.
Okay, that's that for next year.
Hopefully I'll be able to find it again.
Cause every year I keep forgetting where I put it.
Is it not on the git lab now?
I are on the repose.
It is like me to go back into git commits.
And it's just easier to do a little case
when you're sure that HTML, which I have.
So Jim asked about the sound compression
and did post processing change some months ago?
Sounders crap.
Yes, it did.
I broke us.
I will fix it and me.
I don't think we need to go into essentially
the dog report, but it comes down to I use log norm
and I use dynamic norm.
And Jim has, well, what do you think?
It's I find it interesting whether everybody else
would or not.
It's not the question.
You mean the problem we had with the FF impact comment?
Yeah, cause he's gone.
So when I put in, he's gone the audio filter.
This is good log norm equals I blah, blah, blah, blah.
It replies to some basic normalization.
This is a good setting for podcasts.
The prior episodes reflect that it preserves the dynamic range
of the source and ensures average loudness level.
The one that I had been, the new one that I've been using,
dynamic is norm.
This is not good.
This replaces the prior ULUFS normalization
with dynamic audio filter that keeps peaks about 9%,
which is the P equals 0.9 over an average of five seconds
which is the S equals five.
This explains exactly what I'm hearing.
Wide entry music is quiet for the first five seconds
and suddenly loud when the speaker is talking
and why quiet parts are quiet anymore.
Peak loudness is not equal to average loudness.
So this is really appropriate in my humble opinion.
And then he goes about different ways to fix it,
which we just converted the change.
So this is good information that is in the show notes
if you're technically into the balls of FFMPEG
and I'll be copying this into the book report
that's open for this topic.
It was interesting to me in the way that it was not related
to stereo or mono, but it was related to some other settings
within the FFMPEG.
And I didn't find it because my antenna pot
does cut the intro and does cut the outro.
Okay, how does the antenna pot do that?
You go to the settings and tell them from this podcast,
you don't play the first 30 seconds
and you don't play the last 30 seconds.
Okay, I have been one of the, one of the things,
changes to the start level.
I thought, okay, wondering where it went.
It's next, next moment.
Yeah, sorry, I got distracted.
What was your, what were you asking?
Oh yeah, I was wondering if chapter marks will be useful.
To signal the intro and the outro, I think I'll add them.
It's, I have it as a, as a 2D item
in my, in my processing script.
I will read changes to the stats file.
Hi all, we're adding support for the Wizigweeg editor
on the posting issue.
As a result, a lot probably all have changed and been updated.
This shouldn't affect anything that's visible to the public
except the stats page.
We're also taking the opportunity to switch to JSON only
for files internally.
So some of the stats file formats will change.
This is being documented as we go.
So expect breakage and delays over the coming weeks.
Please ping us on the matrix channel
if you spot anything.
And then other Jews were low on shows.
What's new, if you have time off,
please spend the time in our recording issue
or to for the main queue and one further reserve queue.
And I also want to read out the other message,
which actually came out in January
because I was sending it as a update for this show.
That's why I sent it.
So it starts off,
we'll be great if somebody could join us.
Thank you guys for doing that for this show.
Hi all, first of all,
Happy New Year to everyone.
Huge thanks to all the people who can,
who submitted shows and helped us out this year.
We have at least one and a quarter million downloads this year
to over 100,000 subscribers.
This year, Dave decided to put down
the janitorial office and will be sorely missed.
It made me realize that I too will be leaving the project
at some point.
And as it stands,
I am a single point of failure.
Obviously this needs to change.
So we need more people taking ownership
of smaller parts of the project.
The first step is documenting the current process
and refactoring the code so that it's easier to manage.
Thanks to everybody who has offered to help with SQL,
whisper on all the other issues
that I was facing this month,
just much appreciated.
Important changes this month.
The main change and the only change you will see
if you're running JavaScript
is that the upload form now allows
what you see is what you get editing.
This offers the ability to format and include hyperlinks
so we don't have to.
So what that means is when you're uploading shows,
you can put in images,
you can put in hyperlinks and stuff.
So please do that.
So that I don't need to do it.
And if I need to do it,
you will be getting an email from me telling you
that I have done it.
So please just make the show look
how you want the show to look.
And that will save us all a lot of it.
Dave has done a lot of work on that.
Also turn on spell checking.
So just spell checking is correct.
And also read it back to yourself
so that you hear if the grammar is correct.
That's stuff that Dave would do.
I will miss it.
I guarantee you I am going to miss this stuff.
So a lot more responsibility for all that
needs to go back to the host, okay?
Other news, we are going to drop support for speaks.
We are going to drop support for subtitles in JSON
and CSV for that.
So we're only going to have SRT files and TXT files.
So the SRT files will give you subtitles
if you play the episode.
And the TXT files will give you the synopsis of the show.
We need help.
Design changes on the website.
There's a link in there.
Integration with Mastodon, issue 47 on the HDR hub.
There's a link in there.
And we would like to add monitoring use
in Prometheus and Grafana dashboards.
Links as well to what that is.
If you have familiarity with that, please get in touch.
Recent changes.
Comment approval is now done via one click
confirming emails to the janitor.
So we took that over from Dave.
We removed the references to the Internet archive
puppy on the web page.
We documented the upload process.
We have we had a feed from the XML.
Not been escaped correctly in the in the comment feed.
So we need to fix that on the website using PHP.
And also Pearl using the HPR statics site generator.
So there's work there for the SQL people as well to help out
about various escaping stuff.
We introduced the with the web editor as I mentioned earlier.
We have a new tool to strip images from the HTML data stream.
So the images when they're uploaded, they're just a big blob
of base 64 data, which can was a huge shock to me.
First time as well.
But anyway, that's fine too.
We refactored the show processing and transgoating scripts
that's still ongoing.
I have spent literally the last two weeks of my vacation,
13 hours a day doing that.
That's what was your most stuff.
So I'm a bit sick of dealing with HPR stuff at the moment.
But it's looking good.
Things are a lot more modular.
Things are going to be a lot more documented.
And things are going to be,
we're going to be able to fix things easier and replace things.
And we have moved a lot of the things that are going to be
removed a lot of the transcripts as being the first thing
that happens on the show.
So that's available to me as a QA check that there's no spam.
And as I mentioned before,
on the new year show, which you want here,
we have had spammers,
trolls, submission shows.
So the first half of the show seems reasonable.
And then the second half is like a spursy theory stuff.
So in order to be able to pick up that,
maybe the transcript will help greatly.
It'll also help greatly for people who don't submit shunals.
Now, please submit shunals because just,
just submit shunals.
It's what people,
there's always feel applying needs to submit shunals.
I'm not going to go into it now here.
But yeah, do a little bit.
Spend the five minutes.
You've already had the time to record the show.
Spend the time filling out the form telling us what it is.
If you're, if you're succinct enough about it.
But, but, but, but changes to the stats page.
Yes, we had a stats page,
which supported XML and text and CSV.
That's all gone.
We know just what Jason and the story.
And we got rid of the complicated nested function.
There's still a one thing that had an open issue about.
And I had asked people for an efficient query to help.
And that is now in on second.
Norris has submitted as had drawn and two shows,
hopefully from those guys explaining how it works.
And in addition to that,
I, there are, let's see.
You arrive breaks local images.
These are all the changes from the Git repo links in there.
If you want to see them,
there's a lot more going on.
So, you know,
type of fixes and stuff.
We added CC to the header as an option.
The host images for some of the hosts were added.
Schedule and guidance,
local churches been added,
screenshots have been added for stuff.
Added some on track script,
cleaned up the documentation,
show process, converted everything to Jason,
component order generated filenames,
reservation table issues,
supporting files for the notes,
documenting Jason only,
documenting the whole of this,
all the stay of those fixing a menu,
minor updates.
We did a lot of moving tools around.
And we had several different Git repulsed,
so a lot of the stuff has been moved to one end to the other.
We had a base URI thing that was set.
So we needed a CSS change in order to fix removing that.
This way,, we should be able to do this.
Wording changes.
Of course, the wizard we upload
wizard we upload on the server.
Changes, image overthraking,
deprecated the addition of the extract images tool.
To go through the HTML and take another binary strings.
On track changes that were in the old hbr transcript thing.
Added the developer information page,
which is like,
If we're going to have developers coming on board, it's good that people are aware of what sort of project they're doing
Also, developers will be added now to the jambushers closest by default. So
You get a feel for what's going on
I'd also as part of that. I want
Developers to understand start feeling when spam is going in have a have an idea of what it tastes like if you know what I mean
So it's it's something that you develop over time to something wrong about the show or there's something wrong about this comment
Or there's something wrong about this email
That you kind of get a feel for a
Nothing in itself about the email jump salvage it was
And that only was built up over time and of course we had the contents index announcement for the
For the new year show and then more information about uploading show as well. It's been documented as we go
What we should be doing is actually thanking the people who made hpr
What it is and those are 59 history of computers from 20
And I will start now for that go order thanking a hookah al andra pathway archer 72 visa
Vento Bob and Brian in whole high oh and
Daniel person
Dave Hingley next we have Dave Morris Delta Ray DNT
Dodd dummy and Estella Fred Black gemlock and geospart Harry Henry
Harry Larry Henrik Hammond Hobbs Hunky Mubugu
Hpr volunteers Joel Yerun Benton John the nice guy and
Pennfather and
Cavie King hazy nightwise Lee
Locky boy m&w
Moss place and mr. Young continuing with mr. X
Neos free noodles Norrist operator Paul Jay
Quavma and Rowan
So the spider some guy on the internet stash a f swift 110
Types are the love book comes sgj and tray and
Trickster trollocoster and finally windigo
Thank you all for making hgr what is huge thank you
So with us are we on anything else to say guys?
No, it was a great show and I hope everybody has joined the new years show and wishing everybody a happy new year
And thank you guys for being on much appreciated happy new year
So let's have three to say is tune in tomorrow for a little exciting episode of hacker
public right here
you
You have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work today show was contributed by a hbr
listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click on our
Contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for hbr has been kindly provided by
An honest host dot com the internet archive and our sing dot net unless otherwise stated today
Show is released under creative comments attribution 4.0 international license
