Episode: 4046
Title: HPR4046: HPR Community News for January 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4046/hpr4046.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:02:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,046 for Monday 5 February 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for January 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 54 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in January
2024.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another Episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
Today it's HPR Community News for January 2024.
The washing machine is on pause.
Dinner is waiting.
We've got 45 minutes, Dave.
Are we going to be able to make it?
I think so.
So yeah, yeah, we just have to stop chit-chatting and go in on like I am now.
No chit-chat.
Welcome to Newhall, Steve.
Well, that's even faster than I expected.
Yes, we do have two new hosts this month.
We have Neo is free.
Those numbers throw me.
And we have Thompson S.G.J.
Thank you very much.
Not very good.
The HPR is a community podcast and this is the community news where the two generators
put down their maps and review stuff that's been going on over the last month.
The first thing that we do, obviously, is probably not, obviously, but the first thing
that we do, no chit-chat, Ken.
The first thing that we do is we go over all the previous shows so that everyone gets
some positive and constructive feedback starting with our show, which was the HPR
community news for December 2023.
And if yes, not a lot of the said.
Not a lot of said.
Nothing controversial.
People are probably too busy with the New Year's show and as such, there was no comments.
So no point reviewing a review show unless there were comments.
So the first real show was dumping roms for fun and profit by Brian in Ohio.
And in this one, Brian is using forth on the Z80 and I think he, he, he, somebody mentioned
that there was nothing useful, he, forth was of no use to anybody.
Well, let me just prove you wrong, says Brian and took the liberty of recording a show
about it.
Yeah, absolutely brilliant.
I, I disassembled stuff, but while somebody else has done it and sent me a listing in the
past.
So, yeah, yeah, to be able to do it in real time in your, in your house is pretty, pretty
smooth.
Yeah, trade on comment.
Great show, but audio clipping.
This was a very interesting show.
Fourth is still a mystery to me and I really need to play with it sometimes, sometimes.
Thank you for sharing with the community.
Also, I'm not sure what's different with your audio setup this time, but it seems like
audio was clipping quite consistently.
Yep, starting a bit on that.
Yeah, sometimes, but I think by large Brian's audio is quite good, just maybe.
Yeah, picked around by or something.
Yeah, just know we all have those ones.
Okay, we do.
Uh, following date was new is free information transparency in a peace world and there was
one comment on that show, would you like to read it?
Yes, Beezer says, interesting ideas.
I like the utopianism of avoiding conflicts by nations, not harboring secrets, but I fear
it would not work in practice.
Your principle assumes that all governments are fundamentally benign and peaceful and only
resort to aggression when threatened or in some other way wronged by another nation.
Sadly, this is not the way of the world.
There are glaring examples that they have countries to deliberately starting wars against
adversaries who pose no threat to them.
The motivation is jealousy, greed, or even just posturing by a leader to look strong in
the eyes of his own population.
At a non-governmental level, of course, collaboration and information sharing is much more productive
than competition.
How many HPR listeners have worked on projects to produce something that they know already
exists in a very similar form, only behind a proprietary screen?
I think how much further technology would go if it were not necessary to keep reinventing
the wheel in slightly different guises because design information is not shared.
Exactly.
The popularity of open source in the business community can be reflected exactly in the
last statement there.
Thank you.
Very much so.
Experiencing experiences with graphene or S and Y are used by Estello.
This is another alternative to something like lineage OS on your Android machine.
I personally use Calix OS and have never bothered to record a show about it, although this
is prone to me to do so.
I personally found this a great show as I really considered installing this as an option
for me, but that obviously would be something in the show that I record at some point.
I looked at it and was put off by the fact that it seemed to require you to use a web browser
to do it and it only seemed to run on Chrome, which I don't run, so I might have got that
wrong, but that was the impression I got, so Calix is on my list to do.
So Leicester commented, I need, I've been using graphene or S2, I've been using graphene
OS on a pixel 5.2, I've been trying to make the experience as minimalistic and just
for traction free as I can, here are some tips I can give, first I disable all notifications
except for calls and SMSes, this makes the thing very calm.
I didn't install the play services either to see if it's usable.
About the apps, I have no app store, so all I get all I can from froid, I found two
very simple launchers, one is Unlauncher, which is no icons, no wallpaper, and the other,
I'm guessing is, and Pyloncher, which is very fast to use once you get used to this.
Signal and WhatsApp are not on froid, but you can download the APK from their websites,
and they seem to work flawlessly. When Entenopod is a good pod catcher,
you can add the HPR-V2, so smiley face. Lastly, I suggest using new pipe as a replacement
to YouTube, note that the froid build of new pipe is a bit old, but you can add an external
froid repository to have faster updates. Very cool, Brandon O'Hio says how to.
Good show, I'm a graphene OS user also, my only complaint with graphene is no root access.
Then aside, I would encourage you to do a show on how you figure out what data is being leaked.
It's an area of knowledge that still is a black hole to me. What tools do you use and how are
they set up? If you do a show like this, please do it cross-platform. So many tutorials start
up with Bruinstool, this or fire or power show, frustrating for Linux users.
And Katie Murray said, thanks, thanks for including the link to the paper you used for references.
It's great to be able to have data on hand as a next step to what's been reported in the episode.
And that's that goes, that's that's it, things to the choir here Dave with our love of show notes.
End date, indeed, yes. So the next day we had Celeste, apologies for buttering that name,
tried V, a new experimental programming language, and I think this is cool, just you know,
the people write these sort of languages and also his opinions on how much stuff is in there,
what should and shouldn't be in there, what direction the language can take.
Yeah, thank you to the boys fascinated me though, I don't understand them enough,
but this is this is this is very interesting. In fact, that it compiles to see I thought was
intriguing as well. Yeah, still see is still alive and well, but it's maybe not the best language to
write unless you're very, very skilled. So the next day we had Thomas GJ, using
NLP to get better answers, answer options for language learning, labenstein distance may help
language learning apps improve answer options for better learning. Now I was listening to this and I
it took me a while to tweak what he was trying to do, but whatever about the language learning,
I thought that was how close something is to something else was actually quite clever little hack
I could use to determine if a page that I've scanned and or seed is is upside down or not.
That's nice. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes. So it's very cool. So only or see 90 degrees,
180 degrees, blah, blah, blah, blah, I then see which of them is closest to
if you're in the business of scanning, scanning pages, yes, that would be great.
Do you want to do the I'll do the first one you can do the second one. Norris has interesting top
topic, great first episode. I'd like to know that I'd like how you explain the complex topic.
Very good. Yep. So I wrote to this because the labenstein thing triggered a memory
and I said interesting show. I thought it had of labenstein distances before as I was listening.
Later I remember that in the university I worked in and I retired 15 years ago from there,
I did this feature to our open LDAP directory server. It allowed us to offer a sounds like search
capability that might have been specific to open LDAP that we were running. I don't think it's a
standard capability. You can add to LDAP. I don't know. I'm out of touch. The LDAP server was used
by the university's web based search tool amongst a whole load of other services.
Excellent for sure. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. I'm really impressed. I'm looking forward to more.
Now, today I learned three random things I've discovered in the recent past.
I did show. Yes. So I've gone off the hacker. Well, not really. I think this is still hacking,
but maybe gone a bit away from the usual hacker pathway. But anyway, I thought it might be
of interest to somebody or other. It's also a great, well, do you want to tell people what
there were? So Pearl's birthday was number three. One and two was talking about hemoglobin
and blood and stuff in the context of sickle cell anemia, which is a genetic disorder that causes
the blood cells, the hemoglobin in the blood cells to be different from normal. It's such that
blood cells don't take on the normal sort of donut shape as they should. So they're not so good
at transferring oxygen and stuff. But there's a cure for this, which is currently being deployed
in various countries, which is reprogramming the stem cells to produce
fetal hemoglobin. Fetal hemoglobin is also interesting. It's one of these things where you
sort of rabbit hole where you go, you go off in multiple directions and then forget where you
started from. Fetal hemoglobin is in embryos and young children up to an age of, I can't remember,
for two to four months. And it does not, it is not affected by the genetic problem. It doesn't
suffer from the sickle cell disease issue. So if you cause the ratio... Short and sweet day.
See, I can't do it. I can't do it. I have to go on and on and on.
Anyway, fetal hemoglobin is a cure for sickle cell disease and so that was pretty much the
thing. The other one was, there's so many, so many rabbit holes. The second, the third
item was that Pearl's birthday was 7th, the 18th, it's born on 1987 and just happens to be my
birthday as well. I'm a bit older than Pearl, but yeah, so that's it.
Excellent. Thank you. An apologies for your short.
Kettle, calling, post black, etc. I'd go on for hours if you didn't shut me up.
Passwords with a pie pieco. It's amazing how many of these things I'm coming across in my life.
People getting around, you know, there's a balance between password, password enters and stuff.
So this was Norris using a password pieco to type passers and the Raspberry Pie pieco
can emulate a keyboard and therefore if we can emulate a keyboard, you can actually type stuff.
The receiving computer will see it as a something that's typed. The first comment was from Ken
Fallon and he says add-ons. You might want to try these add-ons. Don't F through three other
letters with paste is one of them and for Mozilla and Google Chrome. That's a very glad you
do this show as I've been ignoring what the people can bring to the table of home optimization.
So I need to grab myself a few of them. Yeah, yeah, they're still pretty cheap.
And any bank that refuses to let you paste in your password from your password safe,
definitely needs to be just from if it's all possible. It's obscene. Absolutely obscene that anybody
would do that. Yeah. Okay, so second comment, stash-af says great minds think alike.
I've been working on a similar project off and on for the past year or so because life gets in
the way. I use a CSV file for a password list and a wave share pieco LCD 1.3 to navigate the list
and tell the pieco to type. Admittedly, I haven't got it fully worked out. I can only do one
page worth text at a time. But if life ever gives me back some time, I might pick it back up and
try to finish it. And we look forward to the show. Absolutely. You're looking very much looking forward
to hearing about that. So the following day we had some guy on the internet. Good heavens,
it's secret. It's secret at time with some guy in the internet, the product. And you can imagine
what this is about. So I think this comes from the reserve queue if I'm not mistaken. So
not very timely, but also quite interesting. Yeah, I do enjoy these. It's saying in better words
the things that sometimes float around my head or should I should turn them into words at some
point. But yeah, I do find this this is most interesting and it's absolutely the truth that we are
the product. In some cases, yeah. So playing Alpha Centurri part four, although I do have to comment,
I'm amazed as, no, I don't have to comment because we'll go down the rabbit hole. Focus, focus,
again, playing Alpha Centurri four, four tips on playing Alpha Centurri by Guess Who? Ahoga, yes.
And this was another one of those nice comfortable slippery shoes, you know,
shoes and nice, can mellow into other hookah shoes, like putting on a nice pair of slippers
that are just broken in and off. But you know, in that lovely comfy zone, you know.
Nice warm to you on a cold day. Yes, yes, absolutely. Yeah, exactly. No comments on that.
I have no idea why. So we'll move on to Claudio M's Laptop EVO EVC-14112BK Laptop,
shoving it in our face. He is Dave, aka device Ram, 256. Sounds good actually, isn't that? The
specs and the price sounds really really good too. It looks pretty too. I've seen it in pictures
on Macedon. It looks good. I think this is absolutely excellent because, you know,
what else can you do with your shiny, then go and share it with your friends down at the local
hacker group that you're involved with. Hey dudes, I got a cool, you can all appreciate this and
be jealous of my new, my new find. But it was also kind of cool that it actually was getting
more expensive over time. It was a very good tip if you could get it as a good deal. Yeah, absolutely.
Moshing on to the next day, drive casting and opinion on advertising. Again, this was from the
reserve queue. So no violation of guidelines here. Some guy on the internet gives his opinion
on advertising while driving. And yeah, I thought this was going to be, you know, billboards going past
and stuff. I see was driving, but no, it was, it was more his advertisement. Yeah,
I'm giving you something else. Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's using his driving like Dave H used to do to
as a place where you can record shows, which I think is most effective. And I applaud it. Great
stuff. And another one from the reserve queue was player control, to control, player media.
Ken maps some player control commands to keyboard shortcuts in LXQT. If you haven't used this,
this literally was one of those today I learned episodes really. Did they put it into the day?
I don't know if today I learned existed as a concept back then. We should maybe do that after the event.
Yeah. But it was just mind knowingly easy to do this to control media and everything seems to
support it. It's it's fantastic. So play press balls, you can map it down the keyboard,
external buttons, Raspberry Pi Pecos, whatever you happen to have. And you can control your media.
Yeah, I was most impressed with it. I was surprised that it capability was there. So so simple to
use. So yeah, wonderful. Good piece of it. Yeah, sometimes you're surprised. Normally when I go
to do something, no distractions, no distractions, movie, oh, movie, oh, sleep tips. Go with operator
on his journey to sleepytown. And oh, man, has he, has he had a journey,
explains his own in some of the episodes though. Oh, absolutely. Yes, yes, it's it's a very,
very grim business to have sleep disturbance issues. Yeah, and he made it very, very clear that it
is a nightmare. Yeah, except in the bathroom. Yeah. I can sympathize. Okay, let's move on.
Processing podcasts with sucks. This is by Norrist. And it's a recent episode about
pre poorly edited recording. There was heaven for the bin, but here's your news shows. Guys,
don't be self-deplicating on your responses. I, when I was posting this on social medias,
I edited that as a smidgen because I found it a very, very useful episode. So yeah, good.
Yes, indeed. Good stuff. Who's done? Shall I do this first one? Yep, for it.
CRVS says, thanks for the tip. I was shamefully unaware of what socks was aside from yet another
arcane media-related application. I would definitely try it. Hopefully that will get me away from
always having to rely on FFM-Bake for audio processing. And D&T says,
Gen RSS and Dropouts. Thanks for the show, Norrist. Great tip about Gen RSS will be handy to me.
It seems like we lost some of the bits of your show. There are some cuts that seem to
to come too soon. Can't say I noticed that myself, but I did. I did notice it. Yeah, there were a few
a few words that didn't finish at the ends of sentences and stuff, presumably. Stopped
recording and then re-starts it because it does it in chunks and then glues them together, isn't it?
Yeah, but it didn't spoil it to any degree as far as I was concerned. Got the information from
it, I believe. Claudio introduces HPR to the Tilliverse, something I did not know about. So it's a
from their website. We're loosely connected, like, mind, till the community. If you're interested
in learning about Unixes, Linux Unix, ESD, etc., become a TillDo member or members TillDo
and sign up now. So various different scenes, mastodons, sites, etc., kind of cool.
Yeah, I didn't know about it. Though it's there on the STF front page to have to visit recently
because the mastodon server went down due to a certificate issue. And I said, oh, that's
what I've seen. Oh, yes, I've built a Tilliverse. A guy called Claudio Miranda didn't tell me about it,
but yeah, so imagine how you can see stuff and not see it. I know I'll see stuff exactly.
What is overlanding? We talked to George from Southwest Idaho, overlanding about his obsession
but overlanding. And this was Quib new. That how we agreed to plan stuff? I don't know.
And this was overlanding is like going for me to be traveling in your vehicle, I guess.
I didn't know what it was. I'd never heard the expression before. So this was a great insight
into the American, great American psyche. Yeah, I wrote down sounds a bit like taking your car
and going camping, but maybe I missed something. I kind of think that's the point Quib new was
trying to make it there. Yeah. Well, very good. Network attached storage options I use every day.
Oh, man, this was one of those episodes that I was grabbing my, couldn't have come at a better
time sort of thing and grabbing my, the show notes, which are excellent and looking up some of
these solutions. And it's good to see bento, you know, addressing other, you know, windows solutions
as well as proprietary out-of-the-box solutions and a couple of little gambits. So, you know,
whatever you are on the, on the freedom scale, there's something there for you.
Yeah, it's really good summary. I definitely give me the impetus to go and do some of this. I've
never really had a, a, a, had a bit of work obviously, but yeah. And I'm just in the process of
rebuilding all my pies in Raspberry Pi OS and deciding what to use them for. So, something to do
NAS, things amongst that lot would be very, very cool. So, yeah, I shall be dig in deeper.
Childeo says, very informative, episode, exclamation mark. I really enjoyed your episode on the
various now solutions, lots of detail on all the options available as well as historical options
like drawable and such. And even though I'm not much of a Windows user except to work, I'm glad you
provided some solutions for Windows users who do listen to HBO. Would you also, would also like to
hear some options for the Mac users too? Yeah, fair enough. Three ways to keep up with YouTube
channels. Noris blasts out a quick episode about three ways to keep up with a YouTube channel.
So, watch everything, subscribe, watch everything, or SS reader, a binge, a topic, moon moon.
So, three good ones here. Yeah, I like the, the DIY RSS type of approach as well. That was,
that was quite, quite neat. You could do that. RSS bridge, I think that was, was that, yeah. Yeah,
but every, every channel has, every YouTube channel has dedicated, as a dedicated,
RSS feed. I now use that all the time. I've already done this. I've known that it existed,
because I've heard you talk about it, but I, because the way they're taking things the way,
and adding crap to YouTube, I assume they're gone, but, okay, check it out. I assume they must have
a load of stuff internally that's based around it, and I hope, I hope that's the case.
So, no comments on that one. So, let's move on to the show for the 26th of January, and that was
further into Florida. We continue our Florida journey onto Cape Kennedy Space Center.
Great, great show. Love it. Again, weirdo with the cap turns up, but what can you do?
I've seen enough American movies to know that that's a normal and off thing, you know, that,
yes, every AT&T van in the corner is chock full with CIA agents, and, yeah,
I'm not a good chill from that guy. It's good. I was washing up with something when I was listening
to this, and I made a mental note, go and look at the pictures, but I haven't done it yet,
because the pictures are great, actually. I've enjoyed looking at them,
while listening, if I can, but I didn't do it this time. But, yeah, wonderful stuff. No bother.
Okay, and on the 29th, we had Delta-A with Grep CIDR to find the first IP on the note block,
and then, production to the Grep CIDR command, which makes finding IPs in the network block
in log files easier. And I posted this into the general chat onto the,
onto in work to much applause from the team members. So, this one went straight from being recorded
to being useful overnight. That's wonderful. Yeah, that's good.
And what it does is it allows you to Grep. So, if you've got log files coming in from a range,
and their spammers are going, you know, using the first IP address until it gets blocked,
then the move to the next one then that gets blocked. So, you can, you can Grep and see patterns
using this too. And then there's IP Calc as well, which is if you're not into this whole CIDR
and can't do it in your head, IP Calc will help you with that. So, that's two useful tools
right there. Yeah, yeah, I have no need for that, but I did when I was working. Oh, yeah,
you do Dave, we use that on HPR with the spammers. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, I don't have it
at home though, but maybe I should, yeah, yeah, to be looking for things in my range of addresses.
Yes. And CRVS had debugging directly with them, and I was thinking, yep,
here we go to our, to our common from Dave about how brilliant this is. Come on, go on Dave.
No, it sounded really good. I've not looked yet. I listened to the show, but the, I wrote down here,
the sound like there's a tap dancing cockroach in the back of various points, but the,
I think I'd have cut them out, but yeah, it makes it more authentic. But yeah, it sounds really
cool. I'd need to dig deeper into this to find out how useful it would be. I don't use GDB,
because I'm a pearl user, so I, but running things out of the terminal is quite,
quite within Vib. It's quite cool, and it's getting to that more.
Yep. And the reference there was the mechanical keyboards, which some people love.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it's good. It makes it very authentic.
Yeah, definitely. You can't be hacking on Vib. Dave, if nobody knows, you're not hacking on Vib.
I have a modern book, click, click the keyboard here. But there are these that change color,
and on it, so it's down to my opinion. Right. Three on common commands, episode one, and I love
to see that coming in episode one, Dave, that means there's going to be more episodes.
Delta Ray from CLI command line.net, etc. Look, Shuff, and X args. Shuffle I'd used, XR of those
and look, I'd never seen before, and it is also. Well, yes, it's, I wish I'd known about it before,
actually. I don't know how I never came across it. But yeah, I love this. This is really good.
It's what you'd expect from Delta Ray, I think, to absolutely. Look, his is pedigree,
and he not only talks about, I mean, talks a little bit about the history, and I knew everything
apart from a look. But I was surprised that I'd missed certain options and their effectiveness
in Shuff and X args. So, yeah, it's, it's, it's a really, really useful show. So, yeah, congratulations
for that. Looking forward to more. Absolutely. Then we had Daniel, Purissence, with Adlingon. Hang on,
you're in the wrong one. We didn't. We did, we stopped. We stopped. We did. We got hugely
fast. Can you, can you hear that, that weird noise, by the way? Wants, okay. No, there, it's okay.
There was, I have a thing on Thunderbird, that one. Can you hear that? Oh, yeah, okay, yeah.
That's the sound of a comment arriving. Cool. Yeah, yeah, I don't know why. But I, I haven't worked
to stop it. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, go ahead, go, let you go on. I do hear some loopback when you're
on, but I don't focus, focus, focus guys. Driving in Virginia, some guy in the internet,
uh, past shows, three comments, uh, that this was on the, some guy in the internet show about driving
in Virginia. Jason Martin has, has driving in Virginia was excellent. As a resident,
uh, all drivers should listen to this. I would give them a different view of their own actions.
I'm not a commercial operator, but, uh, I gave me more respect for them. So, cool. Yeah, yeah,
that was a very scary episode about stuff that, uh, that, uh, commercial truck drivers are
faced with. And you really need to watch out for, uh, all of the possible attacks and stuff. It's,
so, uh, really scary. So the next one is on Archer 72's show, optical meters, not dead,
3986, and it's from Frank who says, capacity versus actual capacity. Hi, the difference between
the two numbers comes from how the bikes are counted. The bigger number, EG 4.7 uses powers of 10,
whereas the smaller number, 4,000, 4,000, 3,000, and it'd be a comma. Anyway, it uses powers of two.
The format is called gigabyte, the latter, Gibby byte for binary gigabyte. In essence, 4.7
gigabytes is 1,000 times, 1,000 times, 1,000 equals four, is that 4,300 and 4.37 Gibby bytes,
which is 1,024 times, 1,024 times, 1,024. Different numbers, but actually the same amount of bytes.
A big cause for this confusion is that Windows shows amounts based on binary calculation,
writes out the 10-base unit names. It says 4.37GB, but it's say, it should say 4.37GB. So there's also
a difference between location uppercase B, location to notes bits, whereas uppercase stands for
bytes. As you remember, a small letter means a smaller unit. So it's a joy to listen to your calm
speech greetings. Fantastic. And then there was one comment from some guy on the internet from me,
which was my road recording setup, where some guy in the internet was going around town,
doing an obligation, and he went into lots of details about the obligation. But I'd love to know
if the obligation got done and it all worked out for them.
Yeah, absolutely. Okay, that was it for shows. Let's go to the HPR community news and the first
or HPR mail list. And for those of you joining HPR for the first time, a welcome, please record a show.
Secondly, HPR is a community podcast where the shows are created by people exactly like you,
in fact, by people like you. And for the last, the latter half of the month of December,
all the shows were taken from the reserve queue, formerly known as the emergency queue.
And reviewing the unknown to people who contributed to a number of hosts who contributed over
the previous year, the number was a lot lower than it should be. So like any organization,
the more people involved, the better. So I was, I was, I said this email, which I'll now read.
Happy new year. Should we continue HPR? Hi, all. First of all, best wishes to you and yours.
I hope you will all, you have all had a good year and a good festive season. I would like to
open 2024 with a question. Should we continue the HPR project? Since I took up the mop,
inspired by HPR 560, all shows a discussion on pod fading, they fading away of one's active
podcasts by Lost and Brown. The understanding was to continue the project until there was no more
interest in it. Last weekend, we used up five shows from the reserve queue. And tomorrow, I will
be posting the last remaining four shows in the reserve queue. So including the other schedule
shows, HPR, which I was going to pull back in, would finish as a project on Friday, the second
of February 2024. All things come to an end and running for 18 years, four months, 14 days,
producing 4,345 shows from 427 hosts is some achievement. So Dave and I want to check to see if
there is still interest in the concept of podcasts produced by the community for the community.
If there is, we'll continue doing this. However, we would like the help of ideally, of one,
ideally two additional janitors. And you can vote here. And very sneakily, I posted
the vote to the uploader show page. So essentially, it's, if you want HPR to continue,
you post shows. If you don't, your silence is taken as a vote, as always. We'll read the next one
on our relatives. So the next was, next was from Claudia Miranda, who is replying to this,
happy new year to you and everyone on the list as well. I'd love to see HPR continue on.
Excuse me, I actually had a couple of shows in mind to upload. One is a normal show and the other
is a reserve show. Hopefully you're recording upload them this afternoon or at least one given
the time I had before I had to leave. We should also be spreading the word as much as possible.
I've been encouraging others on Mastered On to submit a show as a good ideas for just such a thing.
I can only hope that we follow through regards, Claudio. Excellent idea. Yes. One thing that you can
do is encourage other people to record shows. That's very, very simple thing to do.
Carl Chave says, I haven't contributed much, but I would like to see HPR continue. I have one show
I've been working on since the end of November. And it's still not quite finished. I have a few
dozen hours invested in it and between the subject of the show and the show itself, but I really
like to get that one done on posters and beyond that, I want a sort of goal for the new year to
post more regularly. The road to hell was paved to good intentions, though as is a time to put up
or shut up. Indeed, Carl, procrastination is not my friend, also personally not my friend,
but definitely not the friend of HPR. Next, we have Daniel Person who says, hi, I'm also in
favor of continuing. I enjoy learning about all the diverse topics that this podcast gives me.
I sat down and thought for like five minutes and I have like 10 topics I could record. So I know
you people have things to say as well. I even have some time to record this weekend. How often could
you post still one episode every fortnight when it comes to janitorial duties I could help out
as a developer, cis admin and almost a YouTuber. I might have some skills that could be useful,
but I would say that I'm in second choice as I already have a lot on my place. So if anyone wants it,
they should do it rather than me. But if no one offers, I will make an effort. It regards Daniel.
Cool. More about that later, we've had quite a good response from people and
we have a plan. And this is from me, janitorial duties. So I'll respond to that.
I'll paste the official word on what the janitors do below, but there is no application form to
start becoming a janitor. Just pick up them up and start. I think Dave will agree that posting
a show is pretty much stream now except formatting the show notes. That was something that I could not
standardize. And something Dave has made great strides with, but help on that will be appreciated.
We were also thinking about some sort of preview for your show notes before submission, which might
help. If someone wants to pick up that mess, feel free to. If coding, web design, code, audio processing,
et cetera, is your thing, then have a look at the open tickets on the repo on most host.net.
All the code database, everything is up there. You just need to create an account for security reasons.
If communication marketing is management is more your bag, listen to the show, and add
constructive comments. Join the community news, attend events representing HPR, give arrange talks
and interviews about HPR, arrange ordering of stickers, posters, bands, et cetera. Those are
just some of the maps that I can think of. But feel free to bring your own up. Anything that
bachelor's community for others is a win. And then a link to the about page about HPR
entirety community driven policy, a proposed and discussed on the main list, which is open to anyone.
Milling list discussions are brought to the attention of the community on the first Monday of
the month of the HPR community news, this show. This is also open to anyone to participate in. The
schedule for can be found blah, blah, blah, blah. Our hosting is provided by Josh from
an honest host.com and has last words and related to issues called about security, changing team
of volunteers called admins or more, more correctly janitors deal with the day-to-day operation
of HPR, acting as the first point of contact, processing the shows, coordinating policies,
discussion, removing spam, updating the website, et cetera. They are accessible, they account,
admin, attacker, public radio, org, they have no more say in policy than anyone else,
anyone who has a long-term dedication to the project and is trusted by the community can't
become an ad bit. So there you go. Next message was from Jezra, who says,
as an absolute slacker that O shows I'm aware that I am part of the problem. The only suggestion I
can make in order to keep the show going would be to decrease the show release cadence,
thrice, fortney, fortnightly, perhaps. Question mark. And I replied to that.
The reason lost and probably steady show was because HPR was releasing shows on an ad
hook unpredictable schedule. People were on subscribing and other podcasts and were asking if HPR
was finished or not. In fact, that was the first time I asked is HPR or IP and link to the 2010
September episode where I asked that. My feeling has always been that a consistent release schedule
builds trusts in podcasts. Since then, a lot of research has been done that supports that
supports us, that point of view, basically. YouTube link, a consistent,
sustainable release schedule is critical when building and fulfilling on the
inspection expectations. Spotify says when podcasters don't stick to a steady schedule,
it can be the first sign of pod fading. And then the show has become less and less irregular
until it eventually just disappears. Continuing. Should it matter? No, but doesn't matter. Yes.
In the case of HPR, we release new episodes every weekday Monday to Friday. You might have
noted who the host would be. What it's going to be about. If it's going to have party
language in it or not, but you do know that you can tune into tomorrow for another exciting
episode. We have a miss today since the 21st of September 2010. And sometimes,
I'm speaking for myself here at least, Dave, sometimes that is the only thing that keeps
going. Yeah, very true. We have 427 hosts. We have 240 slots a year. So one show a year is more
than enough to handle the schedule. Going to fewer release days would not address the problem of
getting shows in the first place. It just prolongs the inevitable. So my personal feeling,
and this is my personal feeling, not as gender, my personal feeling is that we should not release
less shows when the queue is low, nor should we release more shows when the queue is full,
which has also been suggested in the past. That said, if there is consensus that we should change
this, this is the place to discuss it as in the mailing list. For now, the compact
with the genitors is very simple. You keep sending in shows and we will keep posting them.
When there are no more shows, we'll close down HPR with dignity. Hopefully that won't be for
ages yet, but it's up for you all to decide. Vote early and vote often, links to the calendar page.
There is no time limit on voting either. By the way, if people are posting shows and the show is
full, please add them to the reserve queue because the flood of shows will stop. We know this for sure.
As sure as Dave follows night, Dave, we're going to have a lull over the summer.
It's the way of the world.
Right, as the discussion has continued, there's a question in my mind about listenership numbers as well.
Caviaz 1, download numbers are certainly an imperfect measure for a podcast, but without
other more intrusive analytics, I suspect that's all we're likely to have. 2, download,
subscribe in numbers are the point of the exercise. While we're not doing this to be popular,
certainly, but it would be nice to have an idea of just what the trends are with respect to
listenership. Over 4,000 episodes delivered and a consistent schedule that's been in place for
a very long time, I expect things would be either consistent or growing. Are they with 470
contributors to HPR? How many orders of magnitude larger than that number? Does the average
episode reach? And then answer to that, I say each day, our show will be heard by as many people
who can squeeze onto the auditorium of the main auditorium in Fostan or between two and three
airbos A-300, A-388 hundreds. Those are the big double deck of months. You know, the big double
deck are passenger planes. Each month we have an average of 3, 33 and a half thousand downloads
that's about 40 fully loaded airbos A-388 hundreds. For more information, C-HPR3648. Then I go
on to say we have a lot more listeners than we do hoes and not whole all hosts are listeners. However,
you can do the math yourself. I'm looking forward to the show on the topic. A
download statistics free show are available on the archive page, links to that. The dates can be
found using this query. It's cut down from one of Dave's select min A time as joined it from
episodes E, join whole H on E whole study equals H whole study group by H that whole study
order by joined is just DEC. The database can be downloaded from HPR, I can probably read you
for such HPR dot SQL. And of message, more information provided by me is that don't know. Let's
move on. I can't remember. Okay, Brian Navarette, who is Brian and Ohio says, I hope people would
contribute and take to heart the order that the audio doesn't have to be perfect. My show's order
isn't great, but I get shows done. So like Mr X says, pick up your phone or microphone and record
a show. Heck, use e-speak to read something you wrote. And in response to that, Claudio says,
exactly. I even mentioned that in my recent episode about the televerse towards the end.
It's about quality of content, not quality of audio, to the extent since you should be able to
understand what the speaker says. So we have a motto here on HPR, which I can't remember. We accept
flag is the best we accept the rest and any show as long as it's audible. So obviously,
strive for better audio, but you know, first shows always going to be, you know, you don't have to
have perfection on your first show, just press record and send. Okay, then we have the digest.
I didn't think the digest was still working, but apparently it is. No, we never managed to get rid
of it because there were, although a lot of people said, yeah, do find no problem. There were
several hangouts who didn't want it to go away. So we defer to them. Okay, cool. Do you want to
den Zuckel? Yes, Kennedave. I've been in production of a 24 episode series on Sec dev ops topics and
AI security plus a roundtable style podcast series for MSPs that been wanting to share with HPR,
but I haven't been sure if the topics I want to share are in alignment since most of the episodes
of the years of the average intro-level Linux user stuff. I do also have some stuff on plan 9,
cyberpunk culture, transhumanism issues, and I'm working on. That said, I can send over a few
show notes, briefs if we would like to review it before I upload some episodes. Also clearly,
this is my enthusiastic vote to keep HPR going. And Jason Dodd says, of course, that you have
interest in. Absolutely. And I'll also do the next one. Hi, Den Zuckel. I don't think there is such a
thing as a typical HPR listener, other than perhaps leaning towards hacking and the implication
that entails. I wouldn't make any assumptions about how while your episodes will be received,
we've had episodes of pens, urban camping, crap cars, and all those of other non-nerdy subjects.
The others which delve into the most complex areas of other and others which delve into the
most complex area of technology and political philosophy. Nothing is out of bounds at either end
of the spectrum, looking forward to hearing your shoals. Cool. And I responded offline about
just getting clarification, but yeah, it's absolutely. Absolutely. Exactly what we're looking for.
Yes, send to Joe's. And Dave and I don't need to know that your recording shows, in fact,
we would prefer that we don't know your recording shows to be very honest. Let's end a little
bit of secret here. It breaks our hearts every time somebody promises a show and we don't see it
coming in. You know, a little, it's like a little kitten dies every time we do that.
We're a puppy, depending on you, you're a puppy. Pick your mammal of
cuddly mammal of choice or whatever else. So please don't tell us, just send them in. We really
don't care. Send them in, ideally coming into the reserve queue, but don't put anything
topical, anything topical, anything with a date, anything that isn't a little bit timely
into the reserve queue. But also these spaces in the main queue for it's enthusiastic for new holes
to be able to get their show out reasonably early. So if you pop it into the reserve queue,
then we can populate from the reserve queue and fill up the, the deals with the hills.
So that sort of thing. If it didn't show, if it's not on the server, it's in the show that's
kind of our, our muscle that are written on the back of the calendar.
Okay, that's it, dude. Are we anything else?
I wrote some stuff in AOB just really to put a mark in the stake in the ground or something
to talk about the extreme shortage of shows, which we've pretty much covered here. I couldn't
read this if that you think that would be a fault because it's useless. Okay. So it's entitled
extreme shortage of shows, exclamation mark. During January 2024, the number of pending shows in
the queue and those in the reserve queue shrank to an extremely low level. It looked as if there
would be no show to release on an upcoming day and there was nothing waiting to be processed.
This is the first time this has happened in many years, perhaps more than 12 years,
can put out a message to the HBR mailing list requesting shows. He also sent personal messages
to hosts asking for shows to be submitted. It's very heartening to see the response to these calls
at the time of writing, which was third of February. There are shows for the entirety of February.
Thanks to everyone who stepped up to help with this emergency. However, we, the HBR community,
must not allow this to happen again. So in, in, in, come the end of February, we're still going to need
shows. Okay. Very, very good day. Thank you for that. And the response has been fantastic. So
if you haven't sent in the show, sending in the show one, one show a year, that's it. You don't
give to conscience. Yeah. Send it in January. Add to the reserve queue. Your job is done for the next
year. Yeah. And thanks to everybody putting up with the spam that I sent out, but I've also
in that asked people to help us out on the janitor side. And there was a lot of response.
HBR does take a lot of our time. So, but there are lots of tasks that that you can help with.
So the more the barrier pick up, I have a read of that comments in the, that response in the
mail thread that I did there about ways that you can help. And of course, feel free to go, well,
you know, that's silly. I'm going to do something completely, I'm going to do something
completely different, you know, running ad forever or I can't come up with ideas. So if you've
got better ideas, it's a community, you know, promoting technical podcasts in a friendly environment,
that sort of thing. Yeah, are we done Dave? I think we are. Yep. I can put back on the wash
machine and we can continue with our day. That was an hour. It's not to finish, so we did
pretty well. Okay. Students, tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker, public radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On the Sadois
stages, today's show is released on their creative commons, attribution, 4.0 international
