Episode: 4008
Title: HPR4008: Sextortion. Good Heavens!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4008/hpr4008.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:33:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,084 Wednesday the 13th of December 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Sex Stortion, Good Heavens.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Scotty talks about sex distortion.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
I want to give a warning to all the parents out there if you have children around for this
episode.
This is a very strong topic and I want you to make the decision all rather or not you would
like for your young adolescent child to hear this message.
It's a topic that many kids today are caught up in, young children with access to the internet.
Now I get it, you may want to discuss this with your child on your own terms.
That's perfectly fine.
But there are some valuable resources in the show notes to assist you, should you choose
to bring up the topic on your own.
I'll give you just a moment to go ahead and pause, I'll assume you've already paused.
Okay now let's get into it.
The topic of today is Sex Stortion.
Sex is the word sex and the word extortion combined to create sex distortion.
Now this doesn't just happen to young people, this can happen to anyone however the young
people are, they target it.
They make a lot of rash decisions, things that they shouldn't do but we all know what it's
like to be young.
Maybe we didn't have access to so much technology when we were young, you know, connection with
the entire world, but we were young and we made decisions that weren't exactly the best.
The benefit is, no one had evidence of it that they could hold over our heads for the
rest of our lives.
Well with sex distortion it's basically a type of black male, where an attacker usually
tricks a victim into sending nude images or videos of themselves.
Most the attacker has the videos, they then turn around and black male the victim asking
for money or possibly even more images, you know, depending on what they want.
This is a crime and I have attached lots of resources from the FBI so if you or anyone
you know is a victim of sex distortion, you have a path for receiving help.
Now this message is good for everyone, men and women and everyone in between.
First of all, please do not, I'm going to say this again, please do not create images
or videos of yourself in a compromising position.
In other words, nude exposing yourself, areas of yourself that's normally clothed, please
do not create these images and do not send them to anyone.
You understand?
I'm not saying don't create them and then send them to a stranger on the internet.
No, no, no, no, do not send them to anyone.
These stories used to happen when lovers would separate and then all of those videos and
images were released as sort of revenge and they have a name for that as well, it's
called revenge porn.
So you see the attacker could be someone you know.
In this case, if they want to harm you and you take these compromising images of yourself
because you were happy with them at one point in time and you sent these images that seriously
you are vulnerable once they have them.
Even if they do not intend to release the images, stop and think of how many people actually
go through the trouble of securing their devices.
If their device gets compromised, suddenly you are compromised.
I'll say this again, do not create any of these compromising images or videos.
Just don't do it.
All right.
Now again, that message is for everyone, but I want to take the time out now to focus
on men specifically here because the overwhelming majority of the people who come charging
through the door shouting that they need help.
Young men.
I swear it's like I want you to imagine if you had an office somewhere on the internet
and you hung a sign up that saying we're willing to help anyone that shows up.
Hundreds into the thousands into the tens of thousands of men will suddenly come charging
through the door screaming they need help because they've just sent an image of their
to someone on the internet.
And now they're being blackmail for doing so.
And at one point, I had to wonder, I'm starting to figure like, is there some sort of, is
this some sort of trend, like is this a, what do you call it?
A challenge.
You know how people do stupid crap on the internet and they call it a challenge, like
the tied pod challenge, you know what I mean?
So I thought that this was a challenge or young men just literally going around compromising
themselves to strangers on internet, there are so many young men just flooding looking
for help.
You know, they're screaming, they're talking about their lives are over because some attacker
is out there now threatening to send these images, these videos to all of their friends
and family, to their jobs, to their schools.
You know, and it's, you have to wonder with it happening so regularly, you'd have to
voluntarily just continue to do it with all of this evidence out there that it's happening
right?
Like, you know, the building is on fire, there's flames licking out of the window, consuming
the structure, it's collapsing right in front of you and you still walk through the door.
You know, you just sort of hold your nose, sort of smoke, so you know, you don't breathe
as much smoke as you fuel your, your eyebrows, sing off of your face, why you try to walk
through this, the threshold of this burning building, like, what is wrong with you?
Now, I don't want to come off as being judgmental, but when you see the amount of it, it really
does bring questions, there has to be something I'm just like not aware of, I don't do a lot
of social media, but because I have a kid of my own, I suppose I should definitely stay
in, you know, a little bit more aware of what sort of challenges and other nonsense is
going on out there, even though it sickens me to hear some of it, but challenge or not,
the consequences of this behavior are very real.
Some people, after being exposed, meaning the attacker, followed through on the threat,
you know, their place of work, any sort of business partners that they may have colleagues,
their family, you got to think about it, some of these people are involved in religious
communities, suddenly these very sensitive, compromising images will release into the
community's hands and everybody knew it was them because here's one of the things that
the attackers do to make sure that they can just really take advantage of you.
They make sure that when you send the video, you include an upper body shot of it so that
there's no way you can deny that it was you, right?
They don't want you to just send an image of the area, no, they want the image of you included,
you know, your identity as well as your, your member.
Now after they've got the images, a lot of the times what the attacker will do, they have
multiple ways that they go about this.
One way is the attacker pretends to be a concerned father who confronts the victim by saying,
hey, that's my underage daughter you were communicating with.
So now the young man is thinking, oh, I was just talking to like a 12 year old or something
and now the father is accusing me of being this predator and the father, the, you know,
their quotes father is claiming that they're going to go to the police and get me thrown
in prison.
Eventually the attacker who's claiming to be the father will then, you know, try to calm
things down a little, you know, hey, we do need to do XYZ in life.
I'll let you go if you just hand over, you know, $500, right, and you know, I understand
your young, there's no need to ruin your life, hand over $500 and we'll just call it even.
If the person, the victim is still not convinced, you know, if they're not terrified enough,
the attacker then has someone who pretends to be a police officer contacts the victim and
then they continue the attack from there.
So you can imagine somebody who's young, 17, 18, whatever, being confronted by who they
think is some young girl's father and then a cop, their life's over, right, I'm going
to prison forever.
Now another way the attack takes place, the attacker wants to obtain the evidence, you know,
the compromising images and videos, they then go through the victims, friends and family,
you know, basically their whole community because they normally meet with you on something
like Snapchat, Facebook, any of the other platforms where you're going to be surrounded
by all of your friends and family on this platform.
That's where they meet up with you first and once you respond to a DM, if you're not
already on Snapchat, they'll then ask you to join Snapchat because some people believe
that this is a secure platform for this type of behavior, right?
I heard a lot of people discussing what they've done with Snapchat and basically the idea
is you send something, I'm not going to say what exactly because everyone likes to pretend
like, oh no, we also do business there when the reality is no, it's no, it's primarily
for things you shouldn't be doing, but either way, you send something to another individual
and that something that you've sent only lasts for seconds and then it is supposed to
be deleted forever and no one can hold it against you, but we know that's lie.
When it's on the internet, everyone has a copy of it once you put it on the internet.
2.
I'm pretty sure there's apps designed to defeat this so it'll probably do like a screen
record and if that's not the case, we're stopping them from using a camera or another phone
to then take a picture of the screen when you send a video, right?
There's no way to stop that.
I'm not going to go through the endless ways this can go wrong for you, but once the attacker
has it and they also have you on platform, they can easily just pull up everyone that
you know on platform, so even if you block them, I mean the threat is still there.
I'll send this to your job, right?
Think about it, you got your LinkedIn on there, you got everything on there, I'll send
this to your job, I'll send this to your church, that's right, you serve as one of the
deacons on the youth ministry, I'll send this to everyone there or your principal at
the local school, are you?
Well, I'll send it there.
I'll make sure to everyone at the school board knows about it, your chef's deputy, I'll
make sure to everyone at the precinct knows about it, whatever you have gone on in life,
once this compromising image is in the hands of an attacker, you are in trouble.
Most people know that immediately like the panic sets in once they realize this person
has them by the cajonis, now here comes the whole scam hot works, you send me $1,000
and I won't, I won't expose you to everybody, right?
Think about it, how much is that worth, $1,000 and it can all go away, meaning no one at
your church, no one at your job, none of your business partner ever has to know about
this for $1,000 and the moment you send the money guess what, now I need $5,000, I've
got needs too.
Now you need to stay out of prison, you need to continue living the life you currently
have.
So you send me $5,000, we can even work out a payment plane and that's how the attackers
try to lock you in and just drain you for everything.
Some people ultimately cannot handle this and they take actions that I will not discuss
here, but I'm pretty sure you know what I'm, what I'm alluding to.
Or if you're a parent, you have young ones out there, they have access to the internet,
rather it's through a gaming console, rather it's with a tablet, an old phone that you
let them use or whatever.
At some point, you're going to need to have this conversation with them, and you need
to be, you need to be kind of blunt about it.
If you put this on the internet, it's not only not going away, but someone will attack
you with it.
Do you understand?
Back in the day, you know, I need to put on my old man voice when I say this, back in
my day, when you did something stupid and somebody else was around to witness it, I mean,
they get a good laugh off of you.
And if they wanted to be a jerk about it, they can laugh about it a few more times, maybe
tell one or two other people and then guess what, now multiple people can laugh at it
until the next thing happens and then everybody kind of moves on forgets or whatever, or you
could just leave, right?
What if you were in that area now, but I kind of don't want to continue living here after
that embarrassing incident, right?
So I'll just move away, I'll just leave.
Now guess what, now that you're no longer the source of entertainment for them, everybody
kind of moves on, but that's how it used to be.
Today, it does not matter where you go.
If they have video evidence or any kind of digital evidence of this, you can't just walk
away from it.
Now, it will follow you the rest of your life and like I said, they will attack you with
it.
I want you to stop and think about trying to sit through a job interview and you're
there with a couple of managers or whoever and they're sitting there with straight faces
on talking to you about how much they'd like to hire you.
But right behind them on a TV screen is the image of you on the internet where you sent
that compromising image and they've intentionally put that on there for you to see, but they're
not looking at it.
It's sitting right behind them and plain view for you to see and they're talking to you
as though it's not even there.
I want you to imagine that right now before you go do something stupid like that, no one's
going to hire you with you making decisions like this, right?
Like this is a clear sign if you're like 18 years old, I know we like to say all your
young, that's all behind you now or whatever.
The reality is no, not really.
I promise you if you ever try to make a change in life like a major change in life, like
if you try to run for office and then ultimately, you know, some higher office like governor
or something like that, I guarantee you nobody's going to go, oh, but they were only 18
back when they sent that image of their junk on the internet.
They were like, no, nobody cares about that.
They're going to say, we can't trust you in your decision making and here's why and
there's going to be a massive billboard with you looking like looking like you did when
you sent that image.
So take these words of advice, don't do it.
It's stupid.
There's absolutely no benefit in it for you.
The attacker has all of the benefit.
They will ruin your life, even if they, even if it does not bring them any joy, happiness
or financial gain.
They may just release the image anyway, even if you pay them, they might do it just to
be spiteful, release the images immediately after getting the money just because why
not?
What's to stop them?
There's zero consequence for them, 100% consequence for you.
But matter of fact, I met an error, 500%, 1000% consequence for you.
You understand?
You are never going to live that down.
You are never going to just walk away from it.
Yeah, your family, your friends might go, oh, well, you know, you were young back when
you did that.
But every employer, everyone that you would hope to earn respect with in life, again, imagine
they're going to be standing there with a massive image of you doing that thing you did
in that video.
Yeah, stand with that right behind them so you can see it.
And they'll be talking to you just as though, oh, yeah, yeah, I understand, man, everything
is cool.
Don't worry about it.
So I'll say it one last time before I get out of here.
Don't do it.
I'm some guy on the internet and I'm getting out of here.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
That Hacker Public Radio doesn't work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, you can click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honest host.com, the internet archive and
our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
