Episode: 4236
Title: HPR4236: History of Nintendo
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4236/hpr4236.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 21:51:26

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4236 from Monday the 28th of October 2024.
Today's show is entitled, History of Nintendo.
It is hosted by Locky Boy and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, join Alexander Locky Boy as he gives information about the history
of Nintendo.
Hello, this is Locky Boy and this is my second HPR episode.
Tonight we're going to learn about the history of Nintendo.
So let's begin.
It all began in 1889 when this guy called Fusa Jairou Yumachi began manufacturing
player cards or Japanese fleeing cards as they're called.
And then in 1902, Mr Yumachi started manufacturing the first Western style playing cards in Japan.
And then in 1933, the company was established as an unlimited partnership Yumachi Nintendo
and Co.
So that's how it obviously the name of Nintendo began.
Mr Yumachi begins a district mutation company, Maruf, who often known as that Co. L.D.T.
And then in 1950, Hiroshi Yumachi took office as president and headed the manufacturer
of a sort of Yumachi Nintendo one Co.
Then in 1951, the company was changed to Nintendo playing card Co. L.D.T.
And in 1952, the company's console of factories were dispersed in Kyoto, Japan.
Okay, whatever that means, I don't know.
If somebody could tell me that, that'd be really useful.
In 1953, Nintendo playing card Co. became the first to succeed a manufacturing
mask-producted plastic playing card in Japan.
Then in 1959, the company started selling printed Walt Disney card characters.
That's interesting.
In 1962, the company listed, okay, I don't think I really need to go to that.
I'm just going to skip ahead a wee bit.
And then in 1980, the company created the game on March.
Now, this was a wee console, right?
And it was basically just a wee orange device with a screen in the middle of a controller
on the outside. It was tiny.
And then in 1981, they came up with the genius idea of the game Donkey Kong,
which I'm sure you all played when you were younger, except me, of course, I'm too old to remember that.
Which is the son of the arcades.
And then in 1983, they built the family computer or family comm.
And then Nintendo developed and started selling the coin-operated V.S. system.
And that was later renamed to the NAS, or the Nintendo Entertainment System.
And then that came out with games like Super Mario Bros.
And Metroid to the Legend of Zelda, I'm punctured.
Which I'm sure games you all played, but maybe not.
But I've definitely played Super Mario Bros.
It's a good game.
And then in 1986, it was launched in Europe, the NAS.
And then in Japan, they launched the a family comm golf tournament.
And then in 1989, the Game Boy came out.
Yes, and I'm sure everyone had a Game Boy had this game.
And it was called Tetris.
And then in 1990, the Super Famicom came out.
But I'm sure most people didn't have that.
But then in 1992, maybe most people had this.
It was the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, or SNES.
And then in 1999, the Super Game Boy came out.
And then they released Donkey Kong Country on it.
And then, I got on the moon, just going to...
In 1996, they launched the Nintendo 64.
I'm sure people had that, maybe not.
But it came out with Super Mario 64.
And Super Mario 64 was, in fact, Nintendo's first 3D game.
And it was also the first voice of Mario we heard.
And it was proclaimed by many to be the greatest video game of all time.
Not in my opinion.
And then in 1064, Launcher in Europe
and sold 2.3 million in his first year.
And then in 1998, they launched...
They introduced the Game Boy Colour.
So that was just the Game Boy with Colour.
And then in 2000, the Game Boy became the most popular selling console.
So it passed 100 million.
And then in 2001, the Nintendo GameCube out.
And that had some good games like...
The Zoom Mario Kart Double Dash.
I wanted to play like it, I haven't though.
And then it also came out with Super Smash Bros. Mealy.
And Luigi's Mansion, the first Luigi's Mansion.
I've only ever played 3.
And then also the Game Boy Advance came out in that year as well.
So that was good.
And then...
And then in 2002,
Sautura, Ewaata became his successor.
He retired.
And then by the end of 2002, more than 25 million Game Boy Advance
units were in homes across the world.
And then...
And then in 2004, Nintendo's most sole console came out.
Yes, in fact, it was the DS.
Yes.
But it wasn't until 2005 that the DS was launched.
You know, if that was only in the US and Japan.
And then the Nintendo DS rose to be the top.
And that's the most popular portable console.
The suitup, the thanks to GameCube for everyone.
Players all over your made Animal Crossing Wild World.
News of Mario Bros.
And Metroid Prime Hump Hunters.
And then the year ended, which I had,
we launched the Wii.
And one of my favourite GameCube games ever is on it.
Called Wii Sports.
And yeah, I love the bowling in it.
And the boxing as well.
And one give me a minute.
And then in 2011, they released the 3DS.
Which I have.
I was rich in my mum.
I was rich when I was married.
So that was good.
And then in 2012, they launched the Wii U.
Yes, I have a Wii U.
Yes.
And it was, and it was actually Nintendo's
personal console with only 12 million.
I mean, that's a lot of lore for nowadays.
But that was proof of Nintendo.
And then on the 3DS on 2013,
did we just mention 2K about it?
All right.
And Nintendo worked with TTG's released two exclusive Lego titles.
Lego undercover on the Wii U.
And let, and prequel,
Lego City undercover the chase begins on the Nintendo 3DS.
I have that game.
And I'll go in a little minute.
Sorry for all these breaks.
I mean, I just have to.
And then in 2017, the Switch came out.
Yes, and I have that as well.
And I'm going to put into more detail of the Switch.
I'm putting some more detail about my Switch,
about what games I have, which are the best.
Now, the first game that I ever got for the Switch
was the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
And that's a really good game.
I'm sure if you're all Mario Kart fans,
even back in the Snays days, I'm sure you did.
Yeah, and it's a really good game.
You can lose loads of characters.
And with the booster course part,
you get more characters and more courses.
So who doesn't like that?
Hey, Ho.
So yeah, then.
And then.
And also there's a.
There's also Street Fighter 30th anniversary collection.
I have an interesting fire in my last one.
I mentioned how I liked it.
In my opinion, that Street Fighter 2 is the best.
I'm sure many people agree with that.
But I'm not sure many people agree with my
favorite Street Fighter, which I'll give you a reminder of.
Izzy Honda.
So I'm sure people are like Reure Ken.
Yeah, so that's good.
And there's lots of other games for the Switch that I like
that I'm not going to retouch.
And I hope you enjoyed this history of Nintendo podcast.
And I hope, and I hope you will listen to HPR in the future.
Good day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
Does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
