Episode: 4154
Title: HPR4154: About HPR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4154/hpr4154.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:27:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4154 for Thursday the 4th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled About HPR.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 55 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Ken reached the about page, which answers many of the questions received.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
So as part of giving feedback on the feedback, I can't really do that without first describing
our history, our values and our way of working.
Most of this is available on the above page.
So I found that in doing the response show, I needed to refer to the above page so much
that quite a significant portion of the feedback will be related to the above page.
So therefore I'm going to read the above page.
So for those of you who haven't read it, I can give it and we only get 200 hits a month
on that page.
I am imagining that's quite a few.
It's been updated quite a bit over the years, so if you haven't read it in a while,
it's worth this thing.
So put this on in the background, have a listen, see if there's anything new or strange in
us because we will be making changes to this for start.
The above page will be changing to a different location once we have rebranded the website.
But also we need to do some policy changes but before we can discuss them, we need to know
what the situation is currently.
So this is the above page as of the first of July 2024 about HPR community.
What differentiates HPR from other podcasts is that the shows are crowdsourced from the
community.
Fellow listeners like you, there is no restriction on how long the shows can be, nor on
the topic you can cover, so long as they are not spam and are of interest to hackers.
If you want to see what topics we've covered so far, just have a look at our archive page.
We also allow for a series of shows so a host can go into more detail on the topic.
You can download and listen to the shows link and you can subscribe also link to the shows
and your favorite podcasting client to automatically guess our new shows when they are available.
You can copy and really distribute the shows for free.
You provide it to your tier to the Creative Commons, attribution share like 4.0 international
license.
Haka Public Radio is an internet radio show podcast that releases shows every weekday
one day through Friday.
HPR has a long tradition going back to radio free America, the binary revolution radio
and in the Namakom radio.
It is renamed from today with a techie radio and for more information on that, have a
listen to introduction to HPR for more information.
Haka Public Radio is dedicated to sharing knowledge.
We do not accept donations, so please consider supporting our Patreon.
If you listen to HPR, then we would love you to contribute one show a year.
Our shows are by default released under Creative Commons, attribution share like 4.0 international
license.
All the software we use is free software and all the code we develop is published on our
GIT tier repository.
All the media is available via the feeds, governance.
HPR is entirely community driven.
Policy decisions are proposed to discuss on the mailing list, which is open for anyone
to join.
Mailing list discussions are brought to the attention of the listening community on the
first Monday of the month in the HPR community show, new show.
This show is also open to anyone to participate in and the schedule for the community new show
can be downloaded as an high calcander containing recording dates for the next 12 months.
Our reminder is also sent out to the mailing list in the week before the recording.
Our hosting is kindly provided by Josh Grap from Analysthost.com.
He has the last word in issues related to site security, a changing team of volunteers
called admins or janitors, deal with the day to day operation of HPR, acting as the
first point of contact, processing the shows, coordinating policy decisions, removing spam,
updating the website, etc.
They are contactable via email on the account admin at hackerpublicradio.org and they
have no more say over policy than anyone else.
Anyone who is shown a long term dedication to the project and is trusted by the community
can become an admin.
See the stuff you need to know section for more information.
In policy changes, HPR will move outcast plans on libera and we also include links to
our matrix and master non-channel.
Existing shows will be flagged with current version and new shows will have default CC
attribution for that zero international.
The intro and outro will be changed and the upload form will be removed.
The option to add intro and outro and the other policy change will be removed by a range
of permissions posting to HPR.
All those are already included in this document.
Please support our patrons.
Our hosting is kindly provided by Josh from Anonostos.com and we would appreciate if you
could donate to help his course in funding hosting.
We would also like you to consider supporting arc of org for Sash Donate who are now hosting
on our media files.
We are always looking for more hosts.
You can email admin at hackerpublicradio.org, go to the website, join the mailing list, go
to the outcast plans, Facebook, LinkedIn or iTunes mailing list.
HPR is governed by the community as so decisions about how hacker public radio should be run
are made on the mailing list.
You can join us by going to hackerpublicradio.org for Sash mailing list.
Join the press 2019, top 10 hacker podcasts, 2018 review, Linux podcast scene, 2016-11 podcast
awards, 2016-10 security pod, as you listen to, also information security round up, 2014
podcast that don't suck, free software on hackerpublicradio, 10 useful places to find podcasts
on Linux, hadn't picked audio podcasts for Linux users, 2013 illuminated Linux podcast
to be 12, 10 great podcasts for Linux and open source geeks and 2011 Linux format, pick
of perfect geek podcasts in our round up.
How to help?
Hackerpublicradio is a community podcast where the shows are provided by the community and
it is also governed by the community who rely on support from our patrons to provide
the hosting infrastructure, submissive show.
One of the best ways to help out is to contribute a show.
You can find everything you need to know here at the link provided.
Suggest a topics.
If there is just a topic you would like us to cover or if you are looking for topics to
record a show, then look no further than our requested topics section, podcast or support.
Please report any experiences with our feeds to admin at hackerpublicradio.org, other
ways to help.
You can help by spreading the word, creating HDR page in Wikipedia, listening to the
shows and add constructive comments, attending community news monthly shows, permitting
community channels, submitting a show, getting others to contribute a show, suggesting
show topics, requesting HDR, representing HDR and local meetups, producing stickers,
banners and merch, paying the demand calls, supporting mobile hosting, locating and
fixing bugs on a GITT repo, improving and documenting on our GITT repo and of course
supporting our patrons.
Download of the archive.
Please be aware that our archive exceeds 62 gigabytes.
We are happy for you to download them, but make sure that you don't incur any additional
bandwidth charges on your site.
We will be happy to physically post the episodes on physical media anywhere in the world if
bandwidth is an issue.
Full episode guide.
The complete episode guide is available to you and at least all the shows on one page
go on right back to the very first episode.
Command line download.
You can download the audio of the episodes directly from the command line using the phone
on commands.
So you want to record a podcast, well you've come to the right place.
Our goal there at HPR is to make it easy as possible for you to get a podcast released.
We take care of the hard bits so you don't need to.
Regarding your first show is always a bit daunting, but hundreds of people like yourself
have done it so you can too.
Stuffy you need to know.
HPR will stop as a project if there are not enough shows.
We do not syndicate shows, not produce for HPR.
You are agreeing to the license of your show being CC by SA 4.0.
You have permission to register to beat your show in its entirety.
Your audio will not be moderated.
Your show will be signaled as containing explicit content.
You determine where and the schedule you show will be released.
We use UTF-A's end to end.
You show will be heard by an international audience.
You also need to reserve shows.
You will no longer be able to edit HPR pages on Wikipedia after you submit your show.
Next topic.
Selecting a topic.
The first thing you need to do is decide on a topic for your show.
You might already have an idea, but if not you can look at our archive page for an example
or some of the shows people have sent in in the past.
There is also a requested topic page or our series page where you can add to the knowledge
to the pool.
If you are worried that your show will not be of interest taggers, then you can click
here to check and see if it is.
And there is a link to our over 10 year old AI page.
If you can't think of anything to talk about, then just record a show telling us how
you got into tech as a way of introducing yourself to the community.
Recording a show.
Please select more detailed information for how to learn how to record a show.
You can record using a media player, a smartphone, recording editing thing up on your computer,
recording interviews on your phone, recording during round tables, avoiding bedding music,
and mixed down to mono.
And there is no need to add any metadata to the file.
Do please remember to introduce yourself.
Uploading your show.
Once you have audio ready, you can post your show by going to the calendar page and then
press the upload button, which is available on every page.
After you selected the date, you wish your show to be released on, you'll be redirected
to the request page where you will be asked to select your show and email address.
We will send you a link where you can upload your show to this address.
So it must be a valid working address that you can access quickly.
We intend to use GBPG to speed up the validation of hosts, so you may wish to use an email
address that has an associate's public key available on our public key servers.
Questions.
If you've got any questions not covered here, just email admin at HackerPublicRadio and
we'll get in touch with you.
All you need to know about getting your show published.
You can also chat with other podcasters on IRC on the hash.
Our Cast Planets channel, follow us on NASDAwn, Hashtag, HPR, or on Twitter.
We also have a Facebook and LinkedIn page, so please join and spread the word.
Still nervous, fellow listeners like you contribute to shows, so we all know how hard it
is to do your first show.
You're probably worried that we won't like you to top it, well don't be.
Have a look at our archive and you can see how diverse the contributions have been.
You're probably worried about the audio quality that you saw in the family, that English
is in your native language, that you suffer from a speech impediment, that you show
has lots of ums and ahs in it, well don't be.
We have had plenty of holes that fall into all those categories, but continue to produce
great shows.
At the end of the day, it's about content and not the audio quality.
That's not to say we won't help you with ways to improve your audio quality if you wish,
or in our HScript, if you can't or won't record it yourself.
Drop in to our channels to see where people can help, our models.
Any audio is better than no audio, any topic that is of interest to hackers, in the end
to show unless it's on the server.
If you tell us you're doing a show, then you also show.
You don't need anyone's permission to upload your show, but if you do have any questions,
drop into the August Planet channel on Libre Chat, where there is probably some of you
there are 24 or 7.
Requesting topics.
This is a list of topics that have been researched, requested by the community.
Feel free to add to this list by email at adminathacapublicradio.org, or contacting us at
Hacapublicradio on social media.
How did you get into podcasting, leadings, what podcast you listen to or what you can
recommend?
What's in your bag?
Tell us about your tools, gear stuff you keep close at hand, what got you into Linux,
what's your favorite Android, applications, desktop, applications, browser, extensions,
and introduction to Wireshark, how to set up your own blog, choosing an artist you designed
for website, business cards, etc.
Music theory, installing a VPN in your home, in a D and system D, episodes on the LPI or
networking series, beginning audio series for HPR and OSMP release, hack and dash
computers, what there are and why you want them, grow to that zero introduction customization,
FM transmissions hack to listen into internet streams, how I got into accessible computing,
how to do nitting, how to build a house, how to build a house, Bitcoin how to, how to solder,
how to weld, how to fix a car, reviewing a steam stream playing software for Linux heads
who don't want to keep a browser open, reviewing of stream rippling software, beginners guide
to GNU plot, now here a series in just set up advanced, how to set up GPG open PGP, what
I do with my Raspberry Pi, it broke, I fixed it, how does core boot work, introduction
to ham radio, I moved and they do it like this here, how to record type team tutorials
on the topic, open stream map, new editor, etymology, functioning versus programmable
computing, procedural computing, set up and grab, setting up IMAP SMT, Gmail in CLI mail
program, IRSSI, a say and set up, your view of the future, alternatives uses for Byzantine
email classifiers with a link tomorrow, how to use a multimeter and other basic electronic
components like a 5x5 timer, how does Hubble remain fixed in a spot in space while in orbit
of Earth, GNU automate systems, what is the deal with IPv6, networking like a pro, beyond
firewalls and IDS, IPS, what do I need, now the security is in place how to read the logs
etc, what are the answers I need to the questions I don't know enough to ask, IPFS and IP
NS, I need a difference between a del-wise thin client for Linux network, the stuff you
need to know, some important information you need to know before you upload to HPR,
you will no longer be able to allow to edit HPR pages on Wikipedia, once you upload you
show you will no longer be allowed to create or edit pages related to hacker public radio
on Wikipedia, CR FAQ about HPR Wikipedia page for more information, all policies decisions
are made by the HPR community, community decides HPR policies so please join the HPR mailing
list to participate, HPR will stop as a project if there are not enough shows, hacker public
radio is dedicated to sharing knowledge, we release about 260 shows a year which is probably
more than all the other false podcasts put together, if you listen to hacker public radio
then we would love you to contribute one show a year, remember once that all the
reserves shows have been used up and there are no more shows in the queue, HPR will stop
as a project, supporter patron, our hosting is kindly provided by an honesthost.com
and the internet archive, we encourage you to support them, over the years count people
of donated services, supported equipment for our conferences etc, we do not syndicate
non-HPR shows, HPR is founded on the principle of hackers sharing knowledge, for that reason
we only release material created exclusively for HPR, we will continue to promote new
podcasts and other creative commons material, if you wish to have your show promoted then
please contact our sister site freeculturepodcast.org, that's it, if there is a piece of creative
commons contact that you would like to showcase then please feel free to record a regular
show where you can introduce the contact and explain why it's important, providing links
to where we can get more information etc and include one sample episode, you are agreeing
to license your show creative commons by essay share like, all your shows are released
under creative commons attribution share like 4.0 international license, which means that
while you can continue to retain the copyright official you are allowing us and everybody else
to use the provided we give you attribution and we release it under the same license, a link
provided for more information, you have permission to redistribute your show in its entirety,
never including content, for example music, in your show that you do not have permission
to redistribute, try to avoid using any content in your show that is not distributed under
the creative commons attribution share like 4.0 international license, if you are redistributing
under creative commons license, canoe free documentation license, public domain or floss software
license, please signal that when you upload your show, we do not post other content, copyrighted
content even if it's available under fair use or by arranged permission, the audio of your show
will not be moderated, we do not vet, edit, moderate or enanuate sensor the audio of your show,
there's more, we trust you to do that, that's the important part, we trust you to do that,
aside from checking snippets of the audio quality for spam checking, we have a policy where we don't
listen to the shows before they're aired, this is a long-standing tradition arising from the fact
that HPR's community appears, who believe that any host has as much right to submit shows
as and the other, we do however transcode audio into different format, please note that this
only relates to the audio you upload, the rest of the metadata branding summary is tagged,
show notes etc are managed by the HPR community and may and probably will be edited, have a listen
to HPR 2210 on freedom and speech and censorship describes the agreed approach to this topic,
your show will be signaled as continuing explicit content, given that we are open,
formed for free speech, we signal all our shows are explicit with the assumption that the listeners
will apply required discretion when playing the shows in public, that's it the majority of our
contact is technical content is technical in nature and therefore is often considered appropriate
for any audiences, if you feel that your show is considered inoffensive in every region of the world
you can signal that when you upload your show, when dealing with content that is explicit
or contains material that is best suited for mature audience, it has become traditional to include
a short warning at the very beginning of the show to allow listeners time to switch off the
episode should they so desire, you determine when the show will be released, the HPR schedule is
entirely community driven and we recommend that you pick the date of your show as then you know
when your show will be released, however the slots will only be allocated once the shows have
been successfully processed, any missing information can result in the show missing the requested slots,
once the slots have been allocated it is not possible to move them, all reservations need to be
approved, any host can select a free slot up to a year in advance, however the audio must be ready
at the time of picking the slot so you can upload immediately after, in exceptional circumstances
it may be necessary to reserve a slot while not having the audio available, this must be
approved by the HPR mailing list in advance, be sure to allow as much time as possible
and include the reason why you feel it's necessary to reserve the slot, this is intended only for
exceptional circumstances such as a scheduled interview where you would like the audio to be released
as soon as possible after the event or to cover an important topical situation that has occurred,
due to the extended time now needed to post shows to external sites, the extra work this entails
and the disruptive effect on reservations, we will no longer allowing them except in very rare
cases mentioned above, the following are standing reservations, anniversary episodes,
the HPR community news, the first day of the fourth month and the days following new year,
we use UTFAs end to end, link to more information about that, keep accessibility in mind,
when you include output from the command and line in the show notes, posting screenshots of the
console or terminal output makes it impossible for screen readers to display this text, always try to
include the raw output embedded in pre-tags, including descriptive language for any text, avoid structures
like for accessibility information click here, where here is the link, rather for more information click
our accessibility page, where accessibility page is the link, your show will be heard by an international
audience, we have visible listening from all over the world who may not have the same culture
background as yourself, therefore you should be as clear as possible when giving dates, for example,
always give temperature in both cells for some far night, measurements in metric and imperiable,
and dates in year, month, day, which is ISO 8601 format, and abbreviations using the NATO
phonetic often, never assume that your audience knows what age a sixth grader is, or how big a 20 euro
20 cent euro coin is, keep in mind the keyboard layouts are also different, so make sure to specify
the key shape and position relative to common known standards, for example, they sign normally
situations above the two on the U.S. keyboard, which has the unicode number of U-0040 and for
more information see we can feed the reserve queue, the reserve queue is intended only to be used in
cases where there is a gap in the schedule one week prior to release, this is known as the emergency
queue, but can also be used when hosts really don't care when their children are scheduled, they will
be used in a first-compress serve basis when there is no conflict with the schedule and guidelines,
these shows contain a message alerting to listeners to the fact that we had a free slot that was
not following our the schedule guidelines, one, you must have the audio recorded ready to upload
before you pick a slot, that's not a guideline that's a rule, new hosts interviews and other time
critical shows should be should use the first free slot, so if you're a new host, first free slot,
always try and fill any free slots that are available in the upcoming two weeks, when the queue is
filling up, then leave some free slots for new contributors, post non-argent shows into the first
empty week, if you're uploading a series of shows, then post them one every two weeks, if you're
have non-argent shows that are timeless, then add them to the reserve queue, recording a podcast,
here you'll find out information on how to record a podcast, golden relays, any audio is better
than no audio, so keep that in mind, don't forget to introduce yourself in the show,
recording with a portable media player, as many of today's portable media players support
recording audio out of the box, search for voice recorder, and see if there is an application for
your smartphone phone, whatever option you have close to hand, try to set the recording to the
best quality format, that is WAV or FLACC, and set everything else to the highest setting,
it's always our goal to get the best audio quality here at Hackaboblade video,
but we also value content or quality, so long as it's audible we'll take it, then just record
the show and request a slot and we'll do the rest, recording with a portable media player,
some of our hosts recommended Android audio recorder for Android phones, which is available on
F-Droid in Google Play, the settings are, recording source is on processed sample ranges 44.1
kilohertz, and coding is FLACC and audio channels MANO, the majority of our podcasters use audacity,
first thing you should do is set your project rate to 4-4-1-0-0-hertz, then you can either record
your show in audacity itself or import the file you recorded earlier, and edit it as you wish,
audacity is a free easy to use multi-lingual audio editor recorder for Windows, Mac OS X,
and GNU Linux, and other operating systems, there's a link to the YouTube video, which was released
back in 2013, as HBR 1404, where you can follow along as I walk you through that,
when you're finished editing your podcast you can export it, so confirm that your project rate is
4-4-100 hertz, then do file export select FLACC, and then click options to reveal FLACC export setup,
set the level to A's, which is best, and set the bit depth to 24, screenshots of all of these are
in the about page. Recording round table discussions, if you would like to record with multiple
participants you can use mumble, connect to chatter.skyhaven.net, Syracchilo Yankee Echo Hotel Alpha
Victor Echo on November.net, port 64738, walk through the audio wizard, and then pop into the
hacker public radio room. Once you are ready, press recording button, select multi-channel, and then
start. That will record multiple tracks, each one for the purpose, participant, and you can edit
and then submit. Okay, with your made a mobile tutorial, which will find useful and that will
produce to short number of shows and how to configure the audio quality links are there.
Avoid bedding or background music. You may include backing music, but it's best if you don't.
Most of the time podcast listeners speed up their shows, and this allows them to cram more shows
into the day. Having bedding music makes it more difficult to understand and it prevents tools
like toolkit silence from working correctly. Others will convert shows to mono to listen in one
year leaving the other free to carry out other chores. Still more slow the shows down so that they
can improve their English. Others are hard of hearing and background music makes it difficult to
understand the text. We make sound to mono. We will buy default, mix down to you show to one
channel, and we will go to transcode.jtmp3.org and speak format. If you want to control this in
more detail, then you should email admin at acrobobicradio.org. There is no need to put metadata into
the file, as the information will be inserted automatically based on the information you provided
when you upload. Please promote HPR. HPR, feel free to use the promotional material attached here,
and send it to other podcasts and have it played in your shows. So there are five links there,
two by tattoo, one by skirt, two by slick zero, and we also have links to the new year show promo.
Picking a slot for your show, any host can select any free slot up to a year in advance by recording
their show and uploading it to the desired slot. In exceptional circumstances, it may be necessary
to reserve a slot while not having the audio available, but this must be approved by the HPR
mailing list in advance. Be sure to allow as much as time as possible and include the reason why
you feel it necessary to reserve the slot. This is intended only for exceptional circumstances,
such as scheduled interview where you would like the audio to be released as soon absolutely
as possible, or to cover more important topical situations such as occurred. Due to the extended
time now needed to post the shows to external site, this requires extra work and is just
disruptive effect on the reservation system. We will no longer be allowing this except in very
rare cases mentioned above. You can post your show by going to the calendar page. Once you have
selected the date, it will be redirected to the request page. We will be asked to select your show,
pre-populages, and enter your email address. We will then send you a link where you can upload
your show to this address. Therefore, it must be a valid working email address that you can access
quickly. We intend to use GPG to speed up the validation of holes, so you will wish to use this
email address that has been associated with the public key on the public key servers.
It's important to note also that you must make the request and click the upload from the same
computer with the same IP address. The audio of your show will not be moderated. However,
the information provided in the upload form may and probably will be moderated. All publicly
facing material is managed by HPR community as a whole, not just the host providing the show.
See the show on freedom of speech and censorship. Described the agreed approach to this topic.
Note, the email will be published on the HPR website and will be given out in the feeds.
So please use a public email address for this purpose. We will publish it. We will pad it with
dot spam at no spam dot. So for example, HPR8 example dot com becomes HPR dot no spam at no spam dot
example dot com. If you do not want to have your email exposed, please contact the admin at
the public radio team to arrange in alias. Once you press next, an email will be sent to your
email address pointing to where you can upload the show. You need to open the link within 15
minutes or the temporary lock will be released. Once you open the link, you can fill in the
information at your leisure fish. The upload form works on the assumption that you will be posting
one show at a time from the same IP address. Once you have promised submit, you will not be able
to edit any of the information. Adding an episode, the unique link sent by email will allow you to
manage both the episode information about your cell and the information about yourself displayed
on hacker public radio with the following information will be requested. Two sections, personal
information and episode information. Remember, all this information will be displayed publicly.
The only exception is that the email address will be sent in the feed with anti spam additions.
For example, HPR8 example dot com will become HPR dot no spam at no spam dot example dot com.
The email will all email field already provided. The image is optional and we will pull it in from
gravatar if we can find it on a from time to time basis. You name and handle is mandatory and it
should be how you wish to be known on HPR8 can be a real name or a handle or both. Your default
license is mandatory. This feels tells us your work is normally licensed older. All our
shows are released under the Creative Commons attribution share like 4.0 international license
which means that while you continue to retain the copyright to your show, you are allowing us
and everybody else to use it provided, we give you attribution and release it onto the same license.
Your profile optional has got some text about yourself, your blog, your online presence etc.
Your profile information is used on the website, in your SS feeds and on social media sites.
You can change your profile information at any time simply by submitting your next show.
Absolute information. Title is mandatory. This is a short descriptive title that will be used
everywhere to identify your show. Try avoid any valid UTA sorry any valid UTA
character is acceptable but keep the length short and clear. Summary mandatory. This is a short 100
character summary of what you show us about. Please fill this out as those will be used once the
show is done off the main page to be used on mobile sites and printaboo brochures in the text to
speech announcements and on twitter, mastodon etc. The theme is automatically added so do not add it
anymore. Explicit is mandatory. You need to pick whether it's explicit or not. The license
all our shows are ccbysa which means you can reach in copyright etc and you can pick a different
one from the drop down list. Show notes are mandatory. This is important. Good show notes provide
listeners with more information about a topic. You have taken the time to record your show
on a topic so many people want to find out more about the subject. Therefore you should include
links to give more information. It is not enough just to give it in the show itself as many people
will be listening while away from the internet and may have forgotten or misheard your links.
You will also show ensure that your show gets posted on time. If you do not supply the show notes
then your show notes will need to be manually edited by HPR volunteer and this will result in
delays. During the time your show will be processed and may get posted before your show.
It is always better to send us the show notes yourself as you know best what information
you are trying to convey. They encourage people to download your show. We produce a lot of shows
and many people download based on the text in the show notes. If your show notes are not
descriptive then it is less likely that we will get as many downloads as the show with good show notes.
They allow your show to be indexed by search engines. Search engines cannot determine the content
of your show from the audio loan. The only way for you your show to be indexed is to describe it
in the associated text what you say in the audio. They make your show accessible to deaf and
hardened hearing people. Your audio is completely inaccessible to those who have hearing problems
so the only way for your show to be of help to them is if you just still the essence of your show
into the show notes or if you are using a script to prepare your show then include that. The amount
you can enter is restricted to 4000 characters but you can provide additional show notes if you
wish. Please add them to a full underscore show notes dot html file which you can be expected
to be served from hacker public radio.org for such apps for such hpr 999 for slash full underscore
show notes dot html. If you wish to include text formatting then please use a format that
supports us. We accept html 5 markdown standard GitHub Panda flavored restructured text text to tags
and plain text. However please restrict yourself to text unless you are experiencing valid markdown
or html 5. Regardless of the format you send your show notes will end up as a html file article
where the head and footer are not available to you about using div and span. The inclusion of
javascript will send your show into quarantine until an experienced htbr volunteer can be found
to debug it. It takes us longer to fix incorrectly format the show notes that play in text so please
only create format the show notes if you know what you're doing and you are sure that you're
writing it's valid. Series is optional it's from a drop down list tags it's a list of comma
separated tags that picks up the most important words in your show notes. You can please try and
reuse ones from the tags page. Upload method you can upload via the browser you can upload a
single multiple files using this method. Chrome will display percentage upload but to see this
and Firefox and it install the plugin or just wait. We can provide a URL for us to get it from
using this option may cause delays as htbr volunteers will need to troubleshoot any issues that
may occur and this can result in your show not be posted on time. It must be publicly accessible
using curl or double get command and please avoid using services that require logins or downloading
web browser. You can also post in information via snail mail if you wish. If you want to submit
additional files for your show then put them in a zip or a tgz file and they should expand into your
directory with a index.html file that refers to the other files actually that should be a full
underscore show notes.html file that refers to the other files and this will be hosted on the
apps directory. Ensure all the links are full URLs as relative URLs will not work in the
RSS feed. Any additional files will delay processing as they need to be verified. Press submit
and then your show will be sent to htbr volunteers to be processed. Keep an eye on the calendar
but when it is posted and your show information is processed on the website RSS feed and social media
the work flow is as follows and this is available on the stats page. Request on verified then it
goes to request email as sent then email link is clicked when they're pending a upload show completed
when the upload is complete that's where your part is done metadata process shown also jsonatex
file is processed and date you know that's Dave show processed post into the database that's me
media transcoded that's also me uploaded to the ia and that is Dave and then uploaded to your
signature net we know that you'll use but I clearly know about that. Okay frequently asked questions
what is Hacker Public Radio? Hacker Public Radio say hpr is an internet radio show that releases
shows episodes every weekday on jr friday what differentiates hpr from other podcasts is shows
a crowdsource but community fellow listeners like you there is no restriction how long the shows
can be or on any topics you can cover as long as they're not spam and are of interest taggers if
you want to see what topics that have covered just look at our archive page also allow for shows to
be grouped into series so that holes can go to more detail on topic. Look at the above page for
full description of the hpr community free culture governance and patrons. A question on the
mailing list from 2020 asked of hpr is content publication network like youtube or is it a podcast
that random people contribute to? Hard to put it another way is the host address addressing the
internet in general or the hpr audience the consensus of this opinion is that hpr is a podcast
contributing contributed to by the community not a content publication network. What is the show?
a show is your audio presentation which we do not moderate with an intro outro titan summary.
The audio is the recording you have made and sent into hpr just to be clear we do edit the intro
outro and titan summary so the audio is what you said to us the intro introduction is a piece
of audio introducing the show the components are a synopsis taken from the details submitted
with the show which is added automatically acknowledgement to our host and providers
added automatically and the hpr introduction music also added automatically the outro is also
added automatically and contains the hpr out your music it show needs a title to describe
as a bank similarly a summary that helps you add more information about the show to potential
listeners can decide whether to listen or not each show is expected to have the mandatory
option attributes list below it viewers shows are usually expected to be informative and educational
and as such some sort of accompanying written material is highly desirable this must consist
of brief notes links to relevant websites or possible longer notes examples photographs
diagrams example files are also willing to make the whole course feels it helps to get the message
across shows are released under the CC by SA license see the stuff you need to know for more
information as a comprehensive contributor you can show you can choose when your show is released
we only release one show a day during weekdays but if the slot is free you can claim it to go to
the calendar page to do this and you will need to have your show ready top mode before you can
reserve a slot can I submit a show made for another podcast strictly no shows are expected to be
made exclusively for hpr however we have we support promoting new podcasts or other critical
commons materials if you record a show for your own in which you want to include another podcast
perhaps explain why it's important given links to feeds you may include one example episode a
series exists podcast recommendations which can be used for the what defines a show being produced
for hackable video if you create material post it first and hpr then it meets the requirements
of being produced for hackable video this means once you upload it to hpr you can publish publish it
anywhere else you like what are the mandatory elements of a show see when picking a slot for
your show quick summary though is titled summary explicit flag license show notes tags and
obviously audio what are tags we were trying to maintain a collection of tags to allow people to
find shows on the same or similar topic tags are simple words or phrases describing acts
of the show such as topics that are covered in it to get hints about what tags you already had
you can view all the current tags in alphabetical order on the tags summary page and examples are
android created commons gaming are there any tags that are best avoided is it okay if I don't include
notes with my show please don't do that they provide less use of more information on the topic
you show is covering the insurer the show gets posted on time I encourage people to download
the show allow indexing pages to work and they make it accessible what is and is not edited
after a show submission we don't listen to the order before posting the show to the website
so we don't change the content unless you have done so and told us about what we have added the
intro to audio similarly we had an outro this is not editing as we don't change the content you
may make changes to the show title tags and some we may make changes to show title tags and
summaries usually these are minor changes like spelling correction tend to this is not any sort
of censorship merely to make the index items more understandable and easier to index depending on
the form the show notes take when you may modify these if you submit plain text will convert to
markdown in order to generate HTML if the notes are permitted on one of the permitted markdown formats
we adjust this to ensure there's a lot of HTML generation if they notes are HTML
we'll run them through HTML checker for mistakes we may correct grammar pronunciation
if it's otherwise unclear if despite the request for show notes some kind of none are provided
we may add notes which help clarify the content of the show this may be done after the show is
released when we have had a chance to listen to we're working on the production reports
only changes made and this can be sent to the host after the show is processed we may make
change the metadata if the host requests items see item fixing errors after if the show contains
links or resources which disappear after a time we may add some future time change the notes
to refer to the way back machine copy that can be found what are common errors in the notes
depending on the notes format to some extent HTML notes it's very easy to hard hand write bad
HTML that's why we use a HTML checker and fix errors common fault is to write code pre to define
a preformer's block of text using a fixed wind font however it's illegal because a pre-tank
can't be enclosed in other tags like code so use pre code instead markdown notes
this is quite forgiving and some people embed HTML in the markdown and HTML may suffer from some
of the issues discovered previously these are much harder to spot the HTML checkers can't really
help unless it's run they have run on the output from pandak general errors spelling is often an
issue in notes as notes are processed they are edited in the vim editor with the spell check
option turned on in most cases spelling problems flagged the vim are corrected grammar and
pronunciation can also be an issue but we do have we do not have effective a very effective grammar
checking tool in notes preparation workflow modification may be split up extra long comma
spliced sentences rationalize the use of capital letters etc if i notice an error in my show not
details how can it be a fix the hbr admins can make changes to show title summaries notes and so
forth ideally sending an email to admins i can probably read you the dog explaining what the
problem is and we'll fix it we'll also ensure that the changes are propagated to the relevant pages
in archive.org don't be tempted to send in your corrections as comments comments are not propagated
to archive.org so people referring to that copy do not see the changes those hubby public radio
have anything to do with hbr some environments prevent access to the site with the word hacker
in it or hackers in their term or content in extreme cases the site name hubbypublicradio.com
have been created to link to the main hbr website in order to get around this restriction see a
mail list thread from perbury 2015 how can i talk to other hbr hosts and listeners you have a
number of choices the hbr mailing list is where various policy measures are discussed and the
announcements are made you need to be a member of the list to post is it the list info page to
you can join the irc channel on freenode or you can go on ma and twitter or mastodon there's a
matrix tunnel and a telegram group. a hbr traditions exist where we record a 26-hour show
at the turn of the year celebration the rebel and you are all around the world we use mombo to
record that show and anyone connected and connect to the mobile server and speak to other
hbr and listeners and hosts. the recording is used to make multiple shows and they're released
when they're ready. why has hbr not got a Wikipedia page? once someone contributes to hbr the
Wikipedia rules prevent us from editing a page. you can of course create one prior to
contributing a show or ask for one to be created. we do of course believe hacker hubbypublicradio
should have a hbr entry. we are one of the longest running past casts starting us today with a
techie in 2005. we are also unique in our community driven approach to producing shows and of
course the fact that Wikipedia itself rests for instance as at least five individual sources.
i would like to post a show but i'd rather not have my email address published on the website.
the mail is just a way for us to get back to you if there are issues posting on this show.
if you trust the janitors to know your email you can use an alias for you on the website
and have it forwarded that email to you automatically. that runs the risk that
where the redirect list compromised then your real email will get exposed. if you prefer
we can use the janitor email for your show with your whole study. if any other emails come in
then we can manually forward them at some point. the risk is that you're trusting the janitors
to protect your email but again it could be compromised. in both cases we will do our best to
protect your email but we can't guarantee anything. another option is to use a throw
way email like real email for your shows. this will be up for enough time to get your key when
posting the show. however keep in mind that we will be very suspicious of any submissions done
this way and we'll be checking in in detail. so expect delays in processing. for more information
there is a links to our ancestry radio freak america bit rare radio in phanomacom and today with
the techie there's links to show social media or mailing list mastered on matrix mobile channel
or cast plans irc telegram twitter facebook and linkedin are on the affiliated links on archive.org
amazon music google podcasts i heart radio i june listen notes mix cloud prayer fm
pod catcher radio.net spotify top podcasts on the commons we have links to free culture podcast
archive.org the hvr source code cchits.net free sound.org
leverbox.org open clipark.org open font library.org open root services.org
pixabay.com and finally links to our patrons anonstose.com
archive.org.org or sync them. unless otherwise stated all our shows are released under
create commons attribution share like for it all ccbisay like it's your website is designed
is released to the public domain. june and tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker
public radio. you have been listening to hacker public radio as hacker public radio does work.
today show was contributed by a hvr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
or cast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads hosting for hvr has been
kindly provided by anonstose.com internet archive and our sync.net unless otherwise stated
today show is released under creative commons attribution 4.0 international license
