Episode: 4416
Title: HPR4416: HPR Community News for June 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4416/hpr4416.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:29:56

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,416 from Monday 7 July 2025.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Community News for June 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 47 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is…
HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in June 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is the HBR Community News for June 2025.
And joining me from America is…
Scatting.
And from Scotland the Brave we have…
It's Kaby.
How are you two chap's doing today?
Very good.
I'm well.
I am very well thank you.
The only thing I would say is I'm sick of hearing about heat waves, heat waves, heat waves
when there is absolutely no even in somebody weather up here.
It's not fair.
It's pouring rain.
We've had quite a lot of sun here, so I'm glad it's broken a bit.
Anyway, this is the HBR Community News for those of you who don't know what HBR is.
It's Hacker Public Radio and we are a community podcast where the shows are submitted by listeners
not very much like you, but listeners who are you.
All the shows come from like-minded people who volunteer their time to record episode
in the hope of sharing knowledge.
This is the community news where HBR volunteers, the generous ourselves we like to call ourselves,
gather around and give some positive feedback on each of the episodes so that people know
that they are really listened to and their contributions are in fact appreciated.
So the first episode this month was HBR Community News May 2025 and as Dave and I have always
commented, there are lots of comments in this episode and just proves it was controversial.
In this case it actually is controversial and the first few comments are going to skip
over until I get clarification back from the mailing list.
The mailing list is the governing body behind HBR.
The mail I'm about to send out is as follows, hi all.
For a normal show we expect hosts to mark shows that may be sensitive in nature to include
a parental advisory as described in HBR 2210 on freedom of speech and censorship.
As an example, see HBR 1309 assisted human reproduction for an example.
Nothing offensive is in the notes or in the summaries, but the show includes sufficient warnings
to give parents and guardians and people likely to be triggered by the topic time to turn
it off.
During last month's community news recording, I felt some of the words which will be in
the email, but I'm not going to send them out here, are not appropriate for reading out
on the community news and so limited my comment to giving the spurt of the fate of male
chicks in the egg industry a horrific.
The commenter has objected and feels that I should have read out the comments, therefore
I'm putting the decision to the community.
Does the policy allow for generous to skip sections of the comments while reading the community?
The policy reads and does a link to the above page hashtag not moderated, it states,
the audio of your show will not be moderated.
It goes on to say we do not vet, edit, moderate or in any way censor any of the audio you submit.
We trust you to do that.
Please note this only relates to the audio you upload.
The rest of the metadata are managed by the HBR community and may be edited, so that
same to the policy.
My view is that the community news is a welcoming show where new hosts come to get feedbacks
on their episodes and for many who use it to decide which shows to download.
The spurt of the comments was conveyed and reading it for a bit would have required
wrapping the episode in a parental advisory, reducing its downloaded appeal and as such
the community as a whole would have suffered.
So if you have comments on that or want to engage in the discussion, feel free to join
the mailing list if you're not already on us, the link is in the show notes for this
episode and at the very bottom of every page of HBR, your feedback is very well.
So therefore we'll skip to where the commenter asks if there was a way to download the database
to see previous comments.
We have got one from naughtest, watch the queue for a show about how to find all the
comments.
I just recorded a show with instructions for getting a local copy of the HBR database.
You can query the database to see all your previous comments.
Torren replies, typo number three, and my previous comment pre-conception should have
been pronunciation spell check, missab sorry, no bother.
He also said high-nourished, do you refer to HBR for 378 SQL to get the next free slash?
Where exactly do I download the file from thanks and he then said, I just checked the
show notes and it's hburehacabobbygradio.org for slashhbure.sql.
So that was the first episode, seven comments, let's see how we do from the next one.
And that was the water is wide and the sheet music should be two.
From Jezra, oh my god, Jezra sending in a show.
No comments about this, but Jezra's long time this mirror does lots of interesting stuff
that I'm mastered on, long time host and pretty much everything he does is a show or a series
of shows.
But this was a pretty nice one on really pond music notation software.
Yeah, that was really interesting actually.
I mean, it was a first start.
It was really interesting to hear that there are people in other parts of the world actually
doing the chanted.
It's the standard go to first instrument for primary school children here.
Then if they're good at it, they'll develop it a bit further and become the backpipes.
So all of them here started.
So it was great to hear that.
The other thing I didn't know is the file formats, the BWW and the Lily pond file format.
So it's good to hear about actually the difference in the files, especially their openness
and their strictions.
And actually, I enjoyed as well the fact that he had a solution for the lack of wide sheet
by embracing open source software and using inkscape even better.
Yes.
Great, great episode.
And nice to see Jezra coming back.
So yeah, there were no comments on that one and no comments on the next one, which was
journal-likely mean it.
Some guy on the internet, I think we know of him.
And I was very interested in this.
Quite a lot of the words and they are glad that there were links in the show notes to
a lot of this really helped me visualize it.
Yes.
And actually, I've got to give a big thanks to Scottie for this episode.
Surely because I was listening to it, it actually, I had to get somebody a birthday present.
And this reminded me that she actually loved journaling.
So I went out of my way, then went to one of the local stores and got actually a nice
leather-bound journal with a good quality pen to go with it, which is not something I would
ever have thought of in my own.
So a big thank you there, Scottie.
You're welcome.
The next day we had might be might scaring the living out of me with digital stenograph intro.
And I'm always worried about this.
You know, our is somebody uploading stuff to HPR with, with actually, it wasn't this
one, it was the next one.
But uploading stuff with all sorts of stuff and I think tattoo has done that in the past.
And Henrik says, Henrik Hemman also, host on the podcast, fascinating topic.
I really enjoyed the episode.
It is an interesting topic.
I would like to hear about the case study somewhat related.
I last, the last I heard that some persons writing some technical documents hide their
killeroy in, for an example, withdrawing like maybe a thin black text and a black line,
somewhat similar to Hicken code, like I recall tectonics oscilloscope that if you enter
a specific order of commands, a figure will play on the screen.
I didn't find it out, but I remember a colleague did and some software Hicken games in code.
So that was his comment, sort of like an easter egg, I guess.
So this comment is by Oxo, it's good show, interesting topic of which I didn't know anything
about until after I listened to your show, steganography will be on my someday list to
dive deeper into.
Thank you, might be Mike.
Sorry, sneezing.
The next day we heard Lee talks to Elizabeth about persistent online virtual world, second
life.
And this was a blast from the past because I remember when second life was a huge big
fad and the company I was working for had their own island, et cetera, et cetera.
Antoine says brings philosophical thoughts.
Second life was revolutionary when it came out and it's surprising to see it prospering
today in the same premises.
Great, an open talk that brought a good knowledge about second life for someone who's never
used or played it.
I will not distill philosophical inquiries that it brought with me, not able to express
it exactly, just congratulate you to Lee and Elizabeth for it.
Yeah, this was actually quite a good show.
I must admit, it's not something that I've really heard no much about his second life
and online gaming is not really something I'm into, but as a gamer itself, I actually
love the chart and found the whole thing really interesting.
It was really good.
So the next day, we had an operator talks about AI tools and troubleshooting them while
he makes Sangrilla with the rum.
This is another look into the brain of operator Annie is big into the AI stuff.
I think the only comment I would say is not everybody is as familiar with the tools as
you are.
Give us a, I usually need to be a few minutes in before I went, oh, he's talking about
that, but the show notes definitely help.
It's funny.
I made one comment on this show.
I didn't leave a comment, I just made it for this, and I just put down AI and alcohol.
What could possibly go wrong?
Right, right.
The next day, we had a show from Plattu, formerly a GNU or Lord of Fame.
The QRCP command, absolutely genius command, you're on the network, you dropped, you want
to send a file to your phone, you dropped a QRCP space.jpeg, just place a QR code, web
server starts, you scan the QR code and your phone and it picks up the file.
What could be simpler?
And I have to confess, I absolutely love this one and I went and tried it.
I've never heard of this before.
So this was something I was really, really interested in and word flawlessly every time
I tested it, I tested it out and I had different files.
The only time it didn't work was one of the times when I was in another house listening
to the radio, I'd actually switched off the Wi-Fi connection, just purely because my
radio was going on and off and then I was like, why is this not working?
Oh, my Wi-Fi is not working.
But yeah, brilliant, absolutely brilliant.
Do you want to read the code?
Yeah, this is by Linda and this is the perfect kind of recommendation.
This is exactly the kind of clever little utility that it wouldn't occur to me to search
for it.
So it's a common problem in a really neat way and I would never know about it except being
told by someone who uses it, great show.
Exactly, exactly.
And then next day we had command line form downloading a podcast and I was surprised
he was just talking to me after this.
No, you know what, actually, I was just playing about with this and I was like, wait a
minute, I should maybe record this, this may have been, will I won't die?
And I actually was thinking myself, oh, let's just record it, it's a show with nothing
else.
And you know what, this resulted in three slots being filled this month.
So I'm not offended with you at all.
I am actually delighted.
This is what Acro Public Radio is about.
Look, dinner show and pay other two people more recording, argument, no, no, I, response
shows.
Yeah.
Exactly, response shows.
Hendrick says, tempted to have fun, thanks, Gabby, I'm tempted to have fun and try
myself and to read the steps in detail to learn what each step does.
The command control, see you mentioned, is indeed very useful one.
Yeah, control, see, try control or the next time, Henrik, you'll, you'll thank me later.
I think we've all found control, see by accident, you, you meant to be calling something
out of a window, a browser tab and you've killed a couple of things.
So we also had one, oh, for me.
So I was going to say, yes, buy yourself, do you want to read your own one?
Yeah.
So we had a person, this is a person message to Red House NPR fan, high Red House NPR
fan, Dave and I had to look at your comment and that's essentially a script to produce
links to a website, while we think it's not malicious, the code written would not run
as is missing some variables.
Can you please record a show about it as we were both impressed by your thought process
on this one, regards, Ken and Dave.
So in the background, we got a comment and we decided not to post that comment because
the code, it was just a dump of some code and we don't like people running, it would
not have been correct to allow that to go into the, it would not have been safe to allow
that to go into the, to the feed, however, as we have no way of contacting the person,
you know, anybody can comment without any, without just knowing them or having email addresses
for them or anything.
The only way to contact them is put in a message and that's what we've done there.
So the next one, GPG Gen K, OXO is back, OXO is back and today it's an interesting script
that automates the generations of GPG keys and all of these tools are available on a coldberg.org
in his repository over there.
Thoughts?
Yeah, actually it was a very, very certainly very technical show.
I actually listened to it all and it prepared for me and enjoyed it.
I was thinking, to be honest, the more and more people are starting to get a bit more focused
on security, the more and more relevant these shows are going to become to not just techies
but, you know, almost average shows.
Exactly, yeah.
This I was thinking a lot of Tlatou has covered GPG quite a lot on his podcast.
So this would be one view and there was a lot of interest on the new world order for this.
So I'm glad to see them appearing here on HKUR as well.
Yeah, absolutely.
By the way, there's not as many comments during the Northern hemisphere summer months.
This is normal.
So don't panic.
One thing that you can do is comment on shows that really helps people.
It's the currency by which we pay our horse.
But please be positive as well when you're doing so.
This is the next show was by a hookah who was doing Isaac Azimov and the other Isaac Azimov.
The ends of the turn she got themselves and the nemesis.
So where they actually brought all the serieses together into one sort of one unit.
So I liked a hookah's take on this and had me reread a lot of these books in the
in the intervening time.
He posted them quite a while ago, but they're coming out and translucent jobs.
Yeah, I've already been enjoying this entire series.
Actually, I have to admit that a hookah is really getting me into an awful lot of science
fiction that I've never been a heavy reader to science fiction.
I've enjoyed the films and things and programs, but never been much more reader.
So I'm actually making a point of searching out some of these guys just so I can actually get
into them to be honest and get a wee taste of them.
Yeah, good stuff.
So the next day we had, how would you pronounce that?
Azim.
Azim, I don't know.
Azimé, I think.
Azimé?
Yeah, Axel's install script for artlinics.
Also very interesting if you're looking at your script.
I spent quite a bit of time going over the code and reviewing it and there's a lot of interesting
colder and it's fascinating that you can do all your install and something that's complicated
as a zart and get everything installed using basically putting a USB stick in a way you go.
Yeah, I'm always a wee touch witty.
Nothing against dogs at all, but when people make up install scripts for things like art,
for things like gender, et cetera, I'm just purely thinking, well, I thought most people
wanted to build up their own distro kind of thing.
So, you know, if you're going to, if you want a quick install script, then there's probably
quite a number of pre-build archers, well like Manjaro and things like that, Manuaro and Calculate
in that region to, I don't know, I'm just always out there with that wee bit with a quick fixings.
I think what he has done here is he's described how away where he has taken
the default install script and customised it to how he likes it.
Oh, yeah, he was thoroughly in depth as well.
Yeah, I mean, I listened to the whole 22 odd minutes, 25 minutes, I'm going to get
and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
No, no, I was only, that was only my only comment, that's just something that said,
I don't have as much as I can call it.
I don't think that's the approach.
I think he was offering people, here's how I automated my install.
Not necessarily that he's making his own distro that you can then take the full
arch and okay, okay, good, yeah, we're on the same page, good.
Yes, oh, no, sorry, I wasn't, no, what I was more meaning was,
I don't really know too much about the tool, what I was more meaning was it's just, it's one of
these things, if you're going to have gen to a arch and you want to build it prepared to get
your hands dirty, not to mention Linux for scratch.
Yes, I, all of those kind of ones, yes.
Brian and oh, you go ahead.
Sorry, I would, I would like to add, I enjoyed the show.
Also, if he could give a little bit more detail on how he loaded his packages in,
I remember him saying he has them stored it on a separate partition within the,
the disk, but did he use his package manager to, because I'm thinking about this from an app
perspective, how you can use app download instead of app install to pull the back, the current
version of the package down without installing it, did he use that method to store the package
into the partition, or did he, you know, how did, how did he acquire the package to move over
to his disk?
Good question.
It's a glorification show required, I think.
Yep, so not, we have to have the updated version next month.
Yeah, exactly.
So the following day, we had pintab2, which was Brian and Ohio, talks about
putting, you know, using various different tablets and how the pintab2 compares to some
some tablets with linear joy, yes, for example.
And this was an interesting show, particularly X11 is better and more mature.
Oh, certainly more mature, don't give it that.
But I think I really enjoyed this one.
The thing is, it's, you know, it sounded like a fun project to do, but this is,
to me, this is a slight part of the problem, is he wasn't doing anything overly advanced,
as far as what he wanted to do with the tablet, but he actually had to do some really quite
advanced stuff just to get some basic features working.
Yeah, exactly.
And I've done it on a tablet, on a Samsung tablet myself with linear joy,
and but it's a constant battle, you know.
Yeah, and I mean, the other problem is there's so many, so many different projects.
I mean, people are so focused on getting an old, a Linux based alternative to Android.
And I mean, I'd probably get hate me over seeing this, but you know, it's almost like
they need the community to totally come together and build a system with the basics of working,
and get the basic, very, very basics working, and then try and build upon it.
You know, because when you look at something like, I mean, I was,
somebody was selling a tablet recently with, um,
mobile, and it's coming pre-installed.
I was very expensive.
Let me see this.
And I was looking at what does work, what does work, and half of the basic things didn't
work, and I'm going, whoa, and you want to charge me 700 quid for that,
any basic tablet here.
Yeah, yeah, it's a tough not to crack though.
Oh totally.
Yeah, okay.
So the following day, we had how to get your very own copy of the HDR database,
commands to download and query the HDR database, and this is by Norrist,
and Torren says, appreciate it.
Hi Norrist, thanks very much for this episode.
I appreciate it.
And then he goes on to say, uh, I downloaded the database.
It's only 19 megabytes in size of that right.
I'm not able to open a flip-pack DB browser SQL Lite version,
get an error, then a running command on the episode page with MariaDB,
and get more errors.
Exist denied for user, uh, Torren as local host to which Norrist replies.
Also on SQL Lite version, I should have added in the show that there are scripts available
to download the DB and load the SQL into an SQL Lite file.
This is probably a much easier option if you don't have experience managing MariaDB.
The scripts are in the HDR Ginger project and link included.
If you try the method in the show and are getting permission denied,
error try running the commands as root sometimes the root user's blanket permissions to the
database is and Torren says, I am not able to use the database to find my common
sign orders running so you do your did network.
I'm also unsure how to run these scripts, not to worry, but thanks anyway.
I will just say that anything access denied is coming from the SQL itself.
So you need to use not the root password of your system,
but the root password of the MariaDB that you had when you installed it.
So if you don't know what that is, you can search on the internet for
changing the root password of my SQL database.
So you do that as the root user, then you can change the root password of the
mySQL database and then you can change the permissions.
But permissions are always a pain to get that running when you start off the first time.
When you start SQL, mySQL or MariaDB the first time.
So the SQL light approach might be better.
So have a look at the HFIR generator source code for that tool there.
Okay, next one is by me, Kevin nerds types Ken by grepping XML,
where I do the same thing that you did only I use a XML starless two parses and stuff like
X, X, Lint or XML, Lint.
Read the comments.
Yeah, give me a sec.
Just get into the comments here.
No, no, I think comment one Henrik Hemrin.
More to digest.
Thanks, Ken, to your addition alternative response to KVS shows about downloading a podcast.
Now I have two interesting shows to digest in detail and learn from.
So Alex sent in three commands here, short version, short version and XML parsing without
XML starless.
So the first two uses curl and the same command and uses one, he uses tuxjam.xml and then changes
his comment to have us take the feed directly from curl and uses head one.
As I said in my show that will give you the first entry in the data in the feed,
but that doesn't necessarily mean that that's the latest episode.
So it's got you for new players there and then he was saying minor correction just to
toss curl dash s and he uses XML, Lint dash dash x path with the x path and head one.
So that is interesting because I had not thought to use XML Lint using that x path as a way to
extract information from XML.
So Alex, please record a little show about that.
That would be excellent.
Thank you very much.
And my own comment for this show that I didn't put down was no need Ken to message me to make a
response show.
It's your right as an HPR listener and host, please do not feel like you're going to find me.
Because it was really a silence.
I don't know, please, I'm a fan of Kevin.
Yeah, thank you for that show.
I enjoyed learning about the tools.
I haven't had a chance to play with it yet, but I still added it to my pay you script
as one of the things I'm going to make sure I have the parser.
Yeah, it's a XML style.
It's a absolutely excellent tool, excellent tool.
Okay, the following day, what I did at work today,
Lee does some coding and testing of a class library that accesses a database.
And this, if anybody hasn't listened to it,
is essentially you're sitting at the desk next to Lee while he goes about his daily job,
literally what I did at work today.
And I found this so interesting.
I thought, looking at the show notes, I was thinking like,
this is going to be one, two, three, four.
Somebody writing out four commands, but the way he was going through it was very,
very methodical and also felt very much like what goes on in my work as well.
So very nice.
Yeah, certainly does say something that doesn't,
that this was at very detailed.
Yeah, this was at one from the reserve show, wasn't it?
No, no, I don't think so.
Oh, what was it?
Oh, I might get the wrong one.
Sorry, I'd put the wrong note in.
Wait, one second, I'll just check the transcription.
Yeah, no, it was from the reserve queue, right?
Yeah, I'm what the reserve queue is for new people.
We can't control when people send in shows.
So sometimes people will record a show and put it into the counter,
but we also ask people to add to the reserve queue,
in which case it just sits there and then first in, first out.
And when we have free slots that are not posted,
then we use those to fill the free slots.
And we have two free slots coming up next week, which is not good,
which means our reserve queue goes down.
So, yep.
Yes, absolutely.
Do you want to add the comments?
And this is by Dave Morris.
Thanks for bringing us along.
I enjoyed listening to you working on your VBS QL server application.
I was cooking dinner for my visitor, my son and his girlfriend,
and your show had a sort of ASMR quality to it.
I have never used Visual Basic or SQL server,
but that didn't seem to matter.
It was in the city here about what you were doing.
Your comment about VMS file version numbers alerted me.
I used to manage a two-node VEX cluster running VEX slash VMS
as its system manager from 1987.
Later, we replaced it with a DEC alpha also running VMS
with the new name OpenVMS.
I very much agree that the version number feature was really useful,
and I miss it.
There was a file attribute you could set,
which also deleted the oldest files
if there were more than a certain number of versions in a directory.
Pretty cool.
It's exactly what Anthony has promised us shows on VEX VMS,
but again, has let us down.
No excuse now that he's retired, or mind you,
there's not no people quite often see
is that when they retire, they have less time.
Well, now I'm retired from HPR, we'll see.
So the following day, we had SGV files and cyberthreat hidden in images.
This was my code, and this is the one that had me awake at night,
cause I was thinking, when you actually run that code,
it starts generating animations.
And I'm wondering why you would allow scripting
in an image file format?
My god, what are they thinking?
Yeah, it's scary stuff, and the thing is,
it does show you, we all just think,
oh, it's only an icon, it's only a small thing.
It does show you just how important it is to be checking files,
and especially when it's from a source
that you don't understand, I don't know.
Or even, it's like a community source.
I'm pretty sure that, what is it?
I haven't used it in a few years,
open clip art or something.
They probably don't check for things like this themselves.
Very, very, this one had me very scared.
Now I'm going to have to read SVG code,
and see if there's anything in it.
Axel says, interesting.
Hi, Komok, interesting podcast.
Thank you for sharing your knowledge about this.
I wondered, is this also categorized
as a stigma, stigma group thing?
Easy for you to say.
I guess it is.
And then used in a malicious way,
my tip as a proton male user is,
in my web browser, I have automatically,
automatically downloading of remote content switched off.
And Komok has a response comment.
Yes, it can be stegonography
if the code is hidden or disguised to avoid detection.
But if it's just inserted as active code,
it may be looked at as a malware or script injection,
not stegonography as malicious content is clearly visible
in the file structure, e.g. having its own script tag.
And the following day, we had a re-response bash script
from Dave Morris.
And this one was in response to your,
my episode on your episodes, Kevin.
Yep, see, like I said,
one episode that I wasn't even shooting but recording.
Still three slots.
Yeah, well, we now need somebody to
do a response show on this one.
Then I did enjoy this one.
It took me a while to tear it apart,
but as always, whenever I do a script,
Dave seems compelled, compelled, I tell you,
to improve it for the better.
I still, I'm not in the habit of doing the while,
feeding it at the early bottom.
It just seems so wrong to me.
But I know that whenever I break it,
that's what I have to do.
Yeah, I mean, it's good to actually share knowledge.
It is good, Deswell, when you see, you know,
you do something just kind of a bit off the cuff,
a bit crudely.
And then it's like, yeah, get responses and responses.
And yeah, okay, that's the way it should be done.
That's how I feel about, about when Dave
does this homework of mine, you know,
a B plus, but it could be better, you know,
it's always room for improvement.
Absolutely.
And you did the next show, which was Link's
old-school browsing, and you were shocked
that the HBR website would work.
And you shouldn't be, because I use links in order to check
and make sure that the HBR website works.
So I was a little bit shocked whether I heard that.
No, to be honest, the recent action I was a bit shocked
with it was so smoothly.
It was just the fact of all the, the,
the players and things from the, for the shoes.
I thought, oh, this is going to come up as a garbled mess.
No, it didn't. It worked really nicely.
Yep. And Hammrik had a comment.
Thanks very much for all the comments, Hammrik.
Review all text.
I use links sometimes.
One use case is to take advantage of the fact
that I cannot see the images in links.
Instead, I only see the alt text.
This helps me get an idea of how the website works
for the visually impaired persons.
And it helps me improve my alt text
on my own websites and elsewhere.
And then I, as I was listening to that comment,
I had the realization that I'm not parsing
in my processing script for alt texts.
So I have a to-do open to make sure that I do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do that.
The debt. Easy for you to say.
So the next day we had operator.
And let's face it, this show was looking how marvelous my monitor is.
And I'll show it in your face.
And you know what?
That's what H4R is about as well.
You know, I've got this cool new toy.
Have a look at it.
I was very, very, very jealous about this.
Well, actually, I was quite funny when he says,
what did he say?
I can't fit my mother-in-law a bit.
A monitor than me, something like that.
Yes.
That couldn't stop laughing.
But one thing did surprise me, actually.
And a good show, good show.
And obviously, I'm not saying a good problem,
a very good monitor as well.
But as a gamer, the one thing that shocked me
was the size of the modern monitor.
He went for 49 inches.
As a gamer, that to me is just an alien concept.
Generally speaking.
Why is that?
Would you want me to talk more?
Generally speaking, when you're a gamer,
you have to keep your eye on the full screen.
So I went as big as 32.
And that truly came down when I replaced it.
I thought, no, I'm looking at 32 again.
It was actually too big for you.
Because you're eye, you're moving your head constantly.
So I kind of have a 28 inch curved monitor.
And that's very much deliberate.
It's not that, oh, I've got a smaller monitor.
The case that is a sweet spot for me.
I've got a 65-inch TV in the sitting room.
And the wee guy, I should say a lucky boy,
he doesn't like me.
I can't look at him.
A lucky boy.
Yes, a lucky boy.
He went and connected a console to it
and got me to play a game with him.
I was blooming sitting on the windowsill
of the opposite wall from it, just to kind of see it.
It seems far too big.
I don't like playing on this.
So certainly the huge monitors, they're great for workflow.
They're great especially if you use
tiling window management split screens,
all that, they're brilliant.
But to me, for as a gamer,
no, that one just blew my mind going,
no, sorry, I'm sticking to my 28 inch,
49 inches way over the top for me.
And I have an 8K monitor work.
And to be honest, I kind of just use three quarters of it
because the whole other right hand section
is just too much RSI trying to move the mouse around first.
So yeah, like I said, there is an actual reason
that most gamers do tend to limit the size.
And you found out if you only use so much of it
and that's not for gaming, I'm assuming.
No, no, it's for work, but I can see your point
that if there was a zombie or something coming in from the side
you'd want to be able to see it.
Yeah, totally.
And speaking of gaming, next day.
Go for it.
It's HR4410.
We had a hooker returns with not civilization for civilization five.
And actually, I really enjoyed this one
because I learned some stuff myself on this.
I'm not a huge fan.
Just because it's not that don't like it,
it's never really gotten deep into it.
But I genuinely thought Siv was always
a hex-based movement, the hexagonal tiles for the movement.
I actually thought it always was,
at least this was the first version
where that was actually the case.
And the other thing as well was that,
yeah, you can tell this was a mistake by the developers.
He was talking about, no, with the Sivs.
And with a lot of games, actually,
religion is a big part of them.
It's usually very heavily linked to loyalty
and also research quite often gets linked to it as well.
This was the first one where the base game
came without any religion.
And this must have been quite frustrating
for those who were quite used to the Siv series
up until this point.
And what obviously they figured themselves,
this was a mistake because they released a DLC
soon after that put it back in.
And I think every Siv since then has had it.
So, but it was really interesting here.
I didn't actually realize, like I said,
with the hex squares.
Yeah, I remember saying that all right.
And never, well, not being a gamer,
I never considered it as important.
Well, it's the way you can move
because you think if you've got a square,
you can only move up, down, left, right.
You can't move diagonals, that's two moves,
if you get what I mean.
And this is a base game.
So if you've got hex, hex, hexagon shape,
you can go diagonally.
Faster, I guess.
Yes, yes.
Yeah, cool.
So the following day, you and Dave interviewed Nick
about the how we would pronounce it.
Packily?
Packly.
Yeah, packly.
Packly.
Brilliant.
I saw this coming in and I was going,
oh, there's a Dave or is it Kevin?
And then all Steve and Kevin.
Brilliant interview.
Perfectly done.
Sure, that's perfect.
And a great topic and well excuses.
Very respectful of the guest as well.
Well done.
Oh, thank you.
Yes, it was a, it was a really,
I actually enjoyed doing the interview.
That was one thing.
And the, yeah, the whole,
the whole process from start to finish,
I really enjoyed it.
Although I didn't like it was,
we also had an edited down version of Tuxtam.
We took a two hour interview and take a down to 20 minutes.
That was blim and difficult.
So we had one comment by Paul J.
A great interview.
Packly is a great application,
but I never knew the background to its development.
Thanks for catching up with Nick
and making this show very interesting,
open source project done right.
It was, it was just very interesting to hear him discussing it
and the whole Android thing is also.
No, I, I really enjoyed this show, honestly.
Yeah, one thing we need to do more of us
as a podcast on Tobit Tuxtam here
and maybe ourselves, myself and Dave at HPR
is trying to get a hold of people,
but always review applications.
But getting a hold of the developer,
our head developer, Shazzy, lead developer.
Then, yeah, that just made that a whole new,
took it a whole new level, I felt.
Brilliant.
And it's good that the two of you were there,
you had different, different points of view,
a lot of that stuff.
So good.
And that was it, then the, the episodes for this episode.
So comments on previous shows.
Let's have a look in the database.
We had a comment on episode 4388
and it was, we had several.
Yeah, we had and they were.
So 4388 was about BSD overview
and Dave had already commented on that.
Same, thanks for this.
I've never used any modern BSD variants.
Though at my work, I use BSD versions like SonOS,
HVUX and Ultrix.
I had a MIPS deck station running
Ultrix on my desk for many years,
part of the network called deck Athena.
And I'm tempted to install one of the DBSDs on my spare sheet
machine just to see what it's like now.
And we had Jim Devore.
Thank you.
I have run many Linux distributions as daily drivers,
but I'm interested in learning more for bespoke appliances.
Love this episode.
I have long wondered what BSD was all about.
And Paul Jay said, thanks.
Thank you very much for the show.
I am BSD curious.
I currently have a free BSD installed
on the thingpad X270.
But I haven't done much with it.
I have Prokmox on the server and Trunas scale installed in the VM
with disks passed through for the digitized.
It's okay but complex.
I really have the urge to set up a server with BSD
and provide all of the NAS services
and VM services jails, I guess,
running any service I want to use.
I also have a Y's 5750 mini tower
with GNU Linux installed.
Sorry, GNIX Linux installed.
But again, not being used.
I might use this as a test bit to learn
about the details of the server setup
then reconfigure the main server.
Thanks for the comprehensive overview and show notes.
I now have some homework to do end comment.
Start of rant by me.
Paul, that should be a show.
And Henrik Hemren,
leave another comment.
Learn more about BSD.
It was interesting to learn some about BSD
and notes to be aware of
if trying BSD and entering from Linux background.
I can think of at least two reasons why I today use Linux
as my daily driver, both work-related.
First of all, that I for several years
had a Sun Unix workstation as my daily driver at work.
And secondly, when I was on Unix,
a workmate at a coffee break talked about Linux.
It was at the time when Linux was something very new.
BSD is on my thoughts to try one day
as an ordinary driver,
or eventually as a NAS driver,
we'll see if it happens.
Furthermore, I also think of that.
I think of that I was on macOS
for some years still have it.
And macOS is to my knowledge based on BSD.
This show gave me more knowledge of BSD.
Thanks.
I noticed it says additional info for BSD router
and it gives a link to the FAQ for such pf.
Example 1.html on the site OpenBSD.org.
After installing OpenBSD and a machine
with two network adapters,
you can follow the FAQ to set up a home router.
That's interesting.
That's interesting right there.
So we had a comment on
Episode 4373?
Oh yeah, bipolar J.
Do you want me to read that one?
Please, yet.
R-Sync, Dave.
Hi, Dave.
I will see if I can just tell people
that episode was working.
Think with standard in as a source.
And it was by AXO.
Go ahead over.
Yeah, actually, I probably should have done that.
I'd have been thinking.
Random comment here.
We don't know what it was about.
Right.
R-Sync, Dave.
Hi, Dave.
I will see if I can make a show about my media server
and how I get stuff uploaded.
Although I do have some imposter syndrome about it,
because sometimes I feel that if it went wrong,
I would be stumped.
On a positive side,
I have all my physical media.
So if I did lose the digital content,
it wouldn't be the end of the world.
But it would be a lot of work to rescan it.
Regarding Dash Dash Delete,
I agree with your comment
about the potential danger of it.
Needless to say,
I took some time carefully checking it
was doing what I expected.
Then I put it in the script,
so I could avoid typing it incorrectly in the future.
And I think that's all the
past episode.
Everything else should be
on that we've already covered.
So that is pretty much that.
Then the only thing we need to do
is see what was on the mailing list.
And the only thing on there was
the announcements for the HPR Community News show.
So I guess, guys,
that brings us to the end of today's episode.
Yeah, thank you very much for having us.
Actually, given the issues we had,
that's actually not too bad a time, right?
There were frantically around
in the background as we didn't have show notes.
So if we missed anything,
apologies, we'll get to it.
So anyway,
tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Acre.
Public.
You have been listening to
Hacker Public Radio.
At HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sims.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
