Episode: 4163
Title: HPR4163: Reintroducing myself while discussing Samba and tiny computers
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4163/hpr4163.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:35:15

---

This is hacker public radio episode 4163 for Wednesday the 17th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, reintroducing myself while discussing Samba and tiny computers.
It is hosted by Al and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Al reintroduces himself to HPR while discussing a few episodes he enjoyed on HPR in the past month.
Hi, I'm Al from the Tech Jam podcast.
I am recording this podcast because I understand that HPR is short episode.
I'm speaking to Kevin from the Tech Jam podcast and you tell me that you are though on shows.
I hadn't actually been listening to HPR for a couple of years, but because of my commute and different things.
I have actually since started doing this into most of them.
I'm really having enjoyed getting this in-tem.
I thought that I would give something back.
A little bit about myself.
I am on the host of the Tech Jam podcast.
I'm also on the host of the Abnavon podcast,
which we did do a couple of shows back in 2000.
The team, they were the HPR episodes,
but currently Abnavon podcast is currently on hiatus due to everyone being really busy with work.
So I am a computer geek kind of thing.
Play with Windows and ensure mostly doing a day, but in my spare time I like to play with Linux and electronics.
Yeah, so that's a quick introduction about myself.
Yeah, like Linux on desktop and on the server.
I've got a couple of home apps out of home, a couple of VPSs,
running Linux on my daily driver, not for work, but for home.
So one of the things I want to talk about is that on episode 4136,
which Kevin was talking about, the Pi Samba share,
something kind of stuck out to me that he was saying that after installs Samba,
you had to do some auto logging onto the machine.
So auto starts at Samba on the start-ups.
So I sort that out a bit odd.
So I reached out to Kevin and asked him what RS he was using.
And he was talking about what he was using.
Raspberry Pi OS Lite.
So I had a bit of play with this.
I had to spare Pi 3 and follow his instructions.
The first I used was released on July the 4th, 2004, 2024.
But when I installed Samba, I always liked to install a couple of extra packages.
So I installed Samba using Studio app space,
install space, Samba, space, Samba, Hive and Common Hive and bin.
You can then, once those installed, you can modify your config.
And if you've got the config, correct.
You can do CDO space system, CTL, restart space, SMBD.
This basically restarts the Samba demon,
which is running as a service.
So using this version of those two commands,
it installs Samba as a service.
So you haven't got the auto log onto those machines to start Samba.
It starts as a service in the background.
So I tested this, I rebooted the machine.
And yeah, the Samba share came straight back up.
So what I would do is I'll put those two commands in the show now.
Moving on to, I'll sort of get a bit of feedback on HP R4148,
cheap computers by Mossblist.
He was on about this, thinks into M7 tiny PC,
and how it's kind of a really good little PC.
So I actually need to get a PC to replace one of my family members' computers.
And so off this, I had a quick look on our eBay and UK,
and I found one which was bare bones,
which cost me a sum of 21 pounds, including postage.
And knowingly, when it first turned up,
all the pins were bent on the way you put the CPU.
So I contacted them and they actually sent one out next day.
So that was quite good.
It didn't come with anything, so it's a base use bare bones.
There's an ACPU or RAM or hard disk.
So I'm asked to get off eBay AI5.
So it is a six generation CPU with four cores.
Yeah, and if that's the full-size CPU,
normally on these micro machines,
they are normally like a CPU you get in a laptop,
because the actual power supply for this device,
that's the laptop.
65 watt think pad charging,
and I have one of them, I've got a lot of freedom to spare.
So yeah, I had that.
I had the hard drive,
so it just had a normal 2.5 sD in it.
And so yeah, the CPU cost me 27 pounds of eBay.
And then I found a RAM, which I wanted to find,
and I couldn't really find anything on eBay.
So it has the Sodium, quite the small one,
so a DDR4 2133 megahertz.
So I googled it, and CEX came up.
So CEX in the UK is one of these places
where you can take your games or your old devices to
and they exchange them for like money,
or you can do them a bit better and get it in score credit.
So I managed to get pick up 28GB sticks,
so I managed 16GB for the RAM,
for a 10 pound, and because the first time I used it,
CEX online, they got free-posed.
So the total cost me 57 pounds for that machine.
So that's 67 euros or 73 dollars.
So I'm really impressed with it actually.
I installed a KD&E on it,
because I wanted to try the 6.1 plasma release,
because I've been trying a number of different things.
I really liked the ultra-marine,
which actually did a review on our touch jam podcast.
We found, yeah, I really enjoyed that.
But I didn't really like the ethics of the developers
who were developing it.
So I've gone back to going to using KD&E on Neon.
So I went to, yeah, and it ran it perfectly.
So basically you get two on the front of it,
two USB ports, two USB free ports,
and the back you get three USB free ports,
and an Ethernet, gigabit port,
and you get two display ports.
I've only got one monitor so I can use it on.
So I've got a 4K display,
and yeah, I've used HDMI to display port,
and it worked absolutely fine.
Displayed 4K, no problem.
With just K on Neon 6.1,
Firefox was really sluggish,
with running like YouTube videos within 4K.
So I tried Microsoft Edge,
because I kind of used it quite a lot.
I installed it using Dev,
and it ran 4K video absolutely fine.
So I thought, hang on, people are moaning that,
that sometimes snaps and stores Firefox.
So I looked, it wasn't installed by Firefox.
So I just removed Firefox using App Get Uninstalled,
or App Uninstalled, whatever you used to command to get,
and so I uninstalled it,
and I went to the Firefox directly,
and then the Dev and installed it,
and yeah, it played 4K video absolutely fine.
So what is wise, when it's running,
yeah, it run between three watts and 10 watts,
just doing normal, chugging along things.
If you do anything massive like doing some editing 4K video
or anything, yeah, it goes up to max, I thought it was 35 watts.
So yeah, what I'm, so what I'm going to do,
is I'm going to send this over to Kevin,
the touch jam podcast,
and he wants it to compare it to what a Pi5 is,
because obviously with a Pi5,
it's actually getting quite expensive to buy one,
and obviously running ARM stuff,
and let me buy the RAM.
So I'm going to send it across to Kevin,
and see what he has to, maybe,
do a review on HPR.
So we have, then,
I was looking that you can get a higher spec one.
So my home lab, that top one,
my server, which I run my media from,
is a HP I7-H Gen,
see, that top, which has got a broken screen.
It's brilliant, it's got I7-6 RAM,
and a 2TB.
So yeah, it's got an M2 SSD in it,
and it flies.
I mean, when I don't really run money 4K videos for it,
but most of my things are 1080p,
and that does idly, using jelly fin,
it idles between 5 and 10 watts.
So yeah, I'm really impressed with it,
but I really want to make a home lab server,
just kind of need to do some more about Docker and containers,
or also want to try proxmox,
because, well, I'm kind of used to use the VMware
back in the days to my day job,
but now obviously we had ESX.
Oh, you can't get it,
because when Broadcom bought it,
you can't get the free license anymore.
So yeah, I've been nuking it,
the new model,
which is an M7-T20Q,
yeah, so, and that supports,
you can have even an i7 or an i9 in that,
we have to 30KG,
but the best thing is that you can get two drives in it,
you can get the standard 1 2.5 HDD in there,
and you can also get the M2 SSD in there as well.
So yeah, I probably might be doing some more podcasts on,
yeah, how that goes,
and maybe setting up how I set up proxmox,
and maybe do some things on containers,
and maybe even help in the background,
kind of understand that you are looking for volunteers.
Hope you enjoyed it,
and I'll speak to you all soon.
Bye for now.
You have been listening to Hecker Public Radio
at Hecker Public Radio, does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
This show will be available on the Sadois website,
on the Sadois website, on the Sadois website, on the Sadois website.
