Episode: 4391
Title: HPR4391: HPR Community News for May 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4391/hpr4391.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:12:06

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4391 for Monday 2 June 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for May 2025.
It is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 77 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in May 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Cam Fallon and you are listening to another episode of HBR.
This is the HBR Community News for May 2025 and joining me today is...
Scarry!
And also...
Gary!
How are you doing there, Kevin?
How's the photo?
I am very well, thanks.
Yes, I was supposed to be on last month's episode and ended up getting infected cut in the
bottom of my food.
I couldn't wait for your ending, so when you guys were recording last month, I was actually
up the doctor getting a checked out, so yeah, thankfully it's now yield over.
The student inflicted more like self-inflicted drama, and I can't even blame anyone for
shame.
Okay, well, this is HBR Hacker Public Radio, which is a community podcast where the shows
are released by community listeners like yourself and they can be on any topic that are
of interest to hackers.
This here, if you listen to now, is the Community News and record this on the Friday before
the first Monday of the month.
And that's very specific, it might even sound like an SQL query if you're paying attention.
So HBR is a community podcast and you can basically join the 400 or more hosts who have released
shows, volunteered shows into the feed.
To produce random stuff that has more than 4,390 HBR episodes with 300 other episodes
is a grand total of 4,690, so we're nearly 470 shows, 4,700 shows.
And as we do, we introduce the new host, Kevin, would you like to do that this month?
I would dearly love to, but we have no new host sadly.
So how does this shame?
No new host, how could that be, Kevin?
How could that be?
We have 130,000 monthly subscribers, we're on Spotify, we're on iTunes, we're on all
the other social medias, how is it possible that people are not sending in shows?
Are we a consuming society or do we want to contribute back?
Are these hollow words I see on all the social medias gone past, about how we want to protect
an independent web?
Why, Kevin?
Why?
Maybe just a whole 130,000 subscribers have already donated a show, that would be a bit
right, wouldn't it?
Yeah, I think you might want to move into the maths department with that sort of, I know
I'm talking about the where future's feed, you must be absolutely filled to the brim.
Let me have a look at the future feed.
Alas, we have some shows, we have some free slots coming up and then next week's next week
and we have lots and lots of free slots.
The week 25 has all the slots free, that's the week after next and the week after that
has also several free slots.
So yes, people, plenty of free slots and as we say, when you upload you can, if you're
a new host, you should just pick the first available slot.
You should record high, I'm Bla, my name is, say your name and then tell us a little bit
about yourself, how you got into tech, how you came about, your story basically, to be
innocent, to HPR and how you got, how you got into tech and we will then listen to that
show and we will give you lots of encouragement and hints at other shows that you can submit.
If you're a regular, you end up a more from us, which is, you know, that's just terrible
is it not?
Yes.
Exactly.
Okay.
So anyway, enough about this, shall we go and go?
The whole reason for the HPR community news is to bring you up today's and stuff that's
been happening on the HPR in the background and also a little bit about what's been happening
so that every host at least gets some comments on their show.
Just by the way, are the currency by which we pay our host?
So if you had listened to a show and you thought, hey, I got something from that or I'm going
to file that away for another minute or I had to chisel in that or that show made me
cry or something at the bottom of every page on that, on the actual media player that
you're looking at right now, there's a link right there that says leave a comment on
the show and you can do that.
The magic word is public.
So the magic word is public.
What does the P in HPR is sent for?
It's public type in that.
Allow much accompaniment and press send and then we will approve it and then it will
get added to the show and you'll hear it.
You'll hear it on next much show as well.
Well, that's of course the spam in which case we take much delight in deleting it and
blocking your IP address forever.
Anyway, as I said, I don't get paid for this, but I do drive a certain amount of joy
after that.
No, I don't.
We actually don't block that much spammer because the swapping IP addresses like all the
people's change under or okay, I digress.
Shall we talk about the shows then guys?
Absolutely.
I think that's why we adhere.
Yeah.
I'm offering too much.
I've been out in the sun.
4369, what LP records do you have?
This is by Fred Black and it says Fred counts up their long playing vinyl records by
organization number and I happen to remember that this one was from the reserve queue and
when I posted it, I was, you know, we scrub too.
We don't listen to the shows before we post them, but we do scrub too to make sure what
it was.
I started like a numbers station coming across as you're going, four, three, eight, seven,
two.
Did he, did he notice us that?
Yes.
I did, actually.
It was funny.
There was something actually that I was thinking as he was going through all these LPs,
all these LPs, I thought, this is historical.
I mean, this is something the modern kids will know nothing about, music on a physical
media.
Wow.
You remember that when it wasn't just a streaming service.
Actually, it's on the growth, on the increase now and vinyl record sales exceeded CD sales
for the first time ever.
The other thing I'm noticing as well, though, is I don't know if you're into the indie
scene, but with the independent artists, there's a lot more of them offering LPs and tapes
like on the bandcamp and that.
And CDs are just a thing of the past that got on, yeah.
My youngest buys records all the time and has a crappy record player, but actually doesn't
listen to them, listens to them on Spotify, but has the record for the physical thing,
which is important because there won't come a time when all these services may well
die off.
Oh, yeah.
And, you know, if you've been paid for nothing but, you know, digital formats, streaming
right, essentially, you've lost the streaming right when they go.
Well, interesting, like, a little bit of, a little bit of interest recently, you know,
the whole streaming and Netflix was like that you could have anything, you want to watch
anything, it's available online, everything's available online.
And that was fine because the publishing houses wanted to break the backs of the cable
companies who had a monopoly hold on the distribution.
So they wanted to encourage online services.
But recently, they've changed the licensing in general.
And this is public information.
This isn't anything to do with my job.
By the way, I do not speak for my employer, blah, blah, blah.
But a lot of the licensing now is also you have to pay them fees for having a dormant
on your platform.
So even if nobody watches this prior to this, you could have like all the Disney movie,
or, you know, all the, all the, whatever, you know, kevy, kevy movies, the whole series
of those on your streaming platform.
And, you know, if only one person watched them, then they got paid for that.
But now they're charging the streaming services for having those movies on their platforms,
which of course means these streaming services, where you thought everything was available,
is no longer available.
And of course, as all the hacker news, the people, the feeds will tell you then the rise
of torrenting is increasing again, surprise, surprise.
The joy of copyright.
Yeah.
Information wants to be free.
And the other half of that apparently is information also wants to be expensive, which
is very true.
Something was with the whole point of this was all to get rid of the monopoly, and now
they exceed the monopoly again.
Anyway, Fred Black, this show, if you didn't hear it, fake goes through his record series
with the, with the point that this is from the reserve queue.
So if you're, if you're hearing this tough, you know, get your, get your recording device
out.
And, hopefully actually get the numbers for tracking down the records, which I found
very strange when I was posting it, but when I was listening to it, I was going, oh,
that's actually quite good because, uh, because that's actually quite useful.
Piddy didn't make it into the show notes, but we do have it in the transcript.
So it should be, uh, should be OK-ish, at least, you know, where to jump to, to get
the, uh, the numbers.
I also noticed a large overlap in what Fred has in his albums to what I have in mind.
So Fred, you have excellent taste.
Moving on, no comments on that alas.
Uh, playing civilization part four, part eight, and this is, uh, we'll, uh, describe all
of these as a few of these.
This is where a hookah, uh, under the series, computer strategy games is going through
his favorite series called civilization, part three, which is like, you start off with,
um, Kevin, describe civilization.
Well, civilization game, it's a turn-based strategy game.
And essentially, the, there are so many different things you can do.
And if you want to play it militarily, where you wipe out, uh, the rest of the
others, there is a victory condition for that.
If you want to play that, if you want to just be the most dominant, uh,
foresh in business, etc, there is a money victory.
But a hook actually goes on in this one to describe the different victory types.
And he focuses actually on the culture victory.
Now, what that means is that with a culture victory, with individual, uh,
types of buildings, you will actually get culture points.
And when it comes to certain, uh, one-off things, like if you, for example,
let's say, Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the first player who is able to research and get
unable to build the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, they've got that.
You can't have ten of them.
You're only allowed one.
And the more certain different things will actually affect your culture.
And to get a victory in culture, what you need to do is have three cities that achieve,
I think it's some like legendary or ultimate culture.
I think it's legendary.
I think it's legendary.
So once you get the three, if that's your victory condition,
then you do that.
So I hope I talk some, actually on both parts, he's kind of referring to this,
but are this specifically he is focusing on the cultural victory.
He talks about things like the science and military stuff,
but this one's mainly focused on the culture.
Yeah, fantastic.
And I was actually even interested in what he did
for somebody who absolutely has no interest whatsoever in gaming.
It was quite interesting.
Oh, totally.
I thoroughly enjoyed this whole series and so far isn't actually a game I'm overly familiar with.
So I mean, he's actually drawn me into it, I have to confess.
And we'll get your feelings on the game in the next episode, Scotty.
And then we had community news where we had three cups and one for each of us.
So can somebody do polls?
Yeah, I can do.
Right in MP3 quality.
Why do you most of your podcasts not play back on Sonos speakers?
And I respond.
Good question.
We're willing to find out, but you also need to help us.
Please see the issue repo announced host.com,
HPR, HPR tools issues 12.
All we need is someone with a sonos setup to run some tests.
If no one was in tears, then it won't get fixed.
I want to specifically talk about this.
Paul, please get in touch with me.
Ken at fallon.ie.
Please get in touch.
Admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
Posting questions like this is extremely frustrating because it's like,
I have a problem.
Okay.
I have no information to help you.
And we could have loads of people having issues with our podcasts.
And it could be a trivial fix.
But I need, I don't have Sonos speakers.
And even if I did, maybe I don't have the brand that you do.
So we can troubleshoot this together.
It's, this is how open source free labor software works.
You also need to help us all.
Okay.
That's about that.
Scottie.
Henry Cameron says,
thanks for the community news episode.
It's an honor to be a part of the community and a listener
and sometimes a contributor.
And also it could be on the community news.
Don't, don't, don't, don't.
As you can all tell them of it,
wacky today, don't know why.
No, it didn't notice.
I've had two days off.
There you go.
The power of Gnu Readline, part four.
Scottie talks about V.I. settings for the Gnu Readline.
I wonder who's going to raise their head here.
Do you want to do that first one, Kevin?
Right.
So this is by,
are you talking about the comments here, sorry?
Hi.
Yeah.
This is by Conan Doyle.
Scottie is so likable.
I always like hearing Scottie.
It's great how he drops in the odd laugh.
He puts just about anyone in a good mood.
Interesting, little though.
That comment was posted with the same IP address as Scottie himself.
Don't do that.
Anyway, surprise, surprising nobody when the word V.I. is mentioned.
Mr. Dave Morris appears.
Thanks for this excellent show.
The V.I. mode has been in Readline forever,
but I didn't use it.
Even though I use V.I.
every day.
You made me ask myself why customer?
I think that when I first learned about Readline,
which was mainly in Unix,
Ultrix, Sonowass and others in the early 90s,
which I promised 10 ages ago I would do a show on and still happen done.
The V.I. interface wasn't as comprehensive as it is now.
So I went with the Emax mode.
It's a long, high-legal, and I may be wrong.
Anyway, your description of this aspect of Readline
makes me want to enable V.I. mode smiley face.
And I definitely didn't add any comments into that comment.
So what was that about Scottie?
One word.
It's about Vi in your terminal.
Yeah, and this is like when you go control in control D,
that's all Emax key bindings.
But you can change that to Vi bindings.
I never knew that.
Would you believe that?
I never knew that.
I can only imagine setting that one Friday,
and then coming back in on the Monday morning going,
what has just happened to my keyboard?
Yeah, in the show, I also mentioned that
you're definitely going to want to set the prop indicator.
That's an issue I had as well.
So just use a little eye for insert mode and a C for command mode.
And that'll help you realize when you're pushing buttons and nothing's happening.
Oh, I'm in command mode, switch to insert.
Yeah, and yeah, very good.
As I said, strange that you're not working full-time in tech
and not having 20 years experience behind you,
because it is, it just find it amazing the level of detail that you have on topics.
I have to grow a really long beard.
Exactly.
That's it.
Yeah, get one of those Santa beards.
The following day, we had rsync with standard in as a source,
and this was by 0x0 or oxyl.
Use the find pipe.
It's the result using find pipe to
pipe its result into rsync to make a copy.
That's it.
And Paul J said,
um, what Paul J said, yes.
Orsync capabilities.
Hi, oxyl.
Thanks for the show.
One question.
Does nursing only copy the files that have changed in the source or destination
directly?
In other words, you don't need the find part of the command.
Or did you only want to transfer new changes and all changes would not have
been transferred across?
I use rsync to keep my server music up to date.
I have a local copy of my of my music
ripped from CDs.
I actually own exclamation ricks.
And have an instance of jelly fill running on the server.
I mount the server directory on my local machine and then run rsync-a-vt-delete
and then the path to its mpd music and then the path to mount music.
This copies files from my local directory into the mounted directory and deletes
any files in the latter, which were not on the former.
If I understand your show, you are working to archive the same thing,
have a master copy of a machine and update the directories on the other machines.
I like the print zero option.
I haven't seen that before and it looks useful.
I look forward to another episode.
And Archer 72 posts,
command number two, rsync-pology.
That sounds like a great setup.
Are there details you can share in a show?
I am cautious of dash-dash-delete because of nearly lost data of my child's younger pictures
and the day after her birth video, that's going to divorce court materials.
Of course, my backup strategy was not great either.
I ended up using test disk or photorec.
It has been a while and I'm sadly lacking documentation.
I'll then link to cgs- sorry cgsecurity.org
We have Dave Morris saying enjoying this show.
Thanks for this.
I like your stream of consciousness approach to making a show.
And it's a good to follow along with your thoughts.
Yes, I agree with Paul Jay that rsync is all about updating the destination with different
detected with differences detected from the source.
So fine, seems redundant.
However, it's interesting examining the print zero option.
I have used it when I have files with spaces and other weirdness in the names,
which I need to process.
Many other commands accept no terminal names and no terminated names.
So this is very useful.
Here's a case in an hpr script I wrote a long time ago when I was a janitor.
Scrolling down slightly, he lists the script, you know,
map file and a few other things there.
It fills in array picks with picture file names,
avoiding problems with spaces in the names, hopefully anyways.
The no characters generated by a find are non-printable,
but you can save the output and view it in the editor
and with odd or tat v to see them.
You mention ACL, which stands for access control list,
a positive feature which gives more find grain access controls to the
file system objects.
Looking forward to more shows like this.
Very cool.
Yep, absolutely.
I've always been a little bit afraid to use rsync because of, you know,
I feel like if I screw something up on my end,
it's just going to help me maximize screwing up everywhere.
So I just, you know, yeah, totally get that.
I use it every day and I've had, for some of the hpr stuff,
I've used like delete, delete from.
So there's like several delete options and delete before and delete after
and all sorts.
So you first copy it over then only at the end of the thing that
do you delete it from the source or from the destination or whatever.
Very dangerous.
So I don't use rsync for deleting because I accidentally did, you know,
did a controller and then modified my rsync and then found out,
oh, I'm working on my musical or I've copied it or I've moved it to my backup
disk and I've removed it from my computer itself.
So like then I went from completely unachieving what I wanted to do
which was actually have a good backup of my data.
I removed the source.
So words warning there.
But the print zero is interesting sometimes for making it possible
to pipe from one thing into the other.
It's available on lots of different commands if you go looking.
Yeah, I was wondering about that.
Well, we'll come around to the other show.
But yeah, it's really cool.
Okay, so the following day we had hpr4374
which was the final show in the new year thing.
Hard to believe it was, it's over so early in the year.
Yeah, here's hope into next year.
We get it out just as early.
Absolutely testament to the editors.
They are brilliant, absolutely brilliant.
I don't know.
As like looking at the queue, you know, they're having them come out in the summer when there's a
lull always, you know, always, I don't know.
I'm between two minds.
I'm between two minds always on the new year show anyway.
So there you go.
Claudio M has a comment, ha, the sign off.
Lull did know I'd be the one signing off.
Everybody for the new year show.
She was fun and it looked forward to the next one.
Ha ha.
Yeah, the question is does he remember signing off?
Ha ha.
Seriously.
So the next day we had, I again,
operator coming in with something I had no clue about and went to add
as some Wikipedia pages to find out about it.
So long chain carbons, eggs and dough roll, dang go.
I'm sure I got that wrong.
And apparently it's a mud dumpling, a Japanese art form where
earth and water are combined and molded, then carefully polished,
create a delicate, shiny sphere examples in the show notes.
And then separately, he was also making eggs, mud dumpling soup.
Yeah, I must admit, I absolutely love when operator does this.
Normally though, he's generally talking about making a recipe.
I'm talking about tech.
This one was talking about this, the clay thing.
I actually had to really listen to it.
I was like, wait a minute.
Did he just could I clearly lump into his soup?
No, I can't believe it.
After all, listen to this again.
Yeah, I agree.
I got a little crossed with the episode as well.
I had to go back and play it.
I played it actually three times.
But yeah, it's great episode.
And I do love hobbies.
Anything that helps you take your mind off of the grind of life
and just gets recalibrated.
Wonderful.
Very good.
Yes, I'm inclined to agree with you.
Torin Doyle says, second comment.
Wonder what is that person?
Let me just check.
Have they ever submitted a show?
Let me just check.
No, last, no.
That's interesting isn't it, now guys?
Oh yeah.
Community member that we don't know anything about.
Gosh.
Cruity of the egg industry.
Alas, the face of male chicks in the egg industry.
His riff, mass, okay.
Have you mass, I don't know what that word is.
Basically all three not nice things.
Have you tried making the soup with a nice substitute?
And Bob responds with three range eggs.
I'm sure operator only used eggs from his own chickens.
And my own comment.
Where I'm speaking to Bob.
Ed Bob, wait a minute, hold on.
Yeah, there we go.
Speaking of Bob,
tongue firmly planted in cheek.
I say, and they have the best homemade and locally slash,
locally slash responsibly sourced.
Dorodongo, any chicken could ever lay eyes on.
Booch.
See what I did there?
I'm here already.
Dorodongo, thank you.
Somebody in here, I would pronounce this.
Excellent, excellent.
Moving on.
Re-research.
Lee talks about doing academic research.
Oh, and I have to kind of agree with them on this.
Anyway, Paul says, sonos play.
But Paul, you kill me here.
You kill me.
Yeah, I'm trying to understand why this podcast plays,
okay, am I sonos and not everyone does.
So HBR plays, okay, but another one doesn't.
I have a problem, folks.
Okay, you can do Lee's one.
Oh, no.
Kelly, Kelly, you do Lee's.
And then, well, given who noted number three,
I thought I better do Lee's one.
Good.
Good.
Yeah, sonos, not sure why HBR in general
might play better than others on wireless speakers.
If talking about this particular episode,
it was submitted as a flag file,
though, as you can see,
it has been converted to a choice of formats.
All other things been equal.
It could be the frequency range of the recording.
Personally, I still haven't settled on a favorite recording setup
and generally just use whatever equipment is turned.
In my own comment, LLMs in the academic research.
I've heard about LLMs in academic research,
but it is not good news.
A flood of junk white papers linked to a article about that
is the result of LLMs at the moment.
Spammer's ruined everything.
That is for sure.
Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Then, actually, I quite liked him giving his own experience
is on it and the fact that it's funny.
It made me think so much of school systems
in the UK, the education system.
He, you know, is him speaking about him wanting to do something
and he was actually putting in the effort to think
and they're like, no, no, stick to the syllabus.
We're here to teach you to pass exams.
Don't do it to learn.
To learn, not just to learn.
It's exactly like it.
I, yeah, yeah, I'll go into this as I'll later, I guess.
But it was frustrating to see that anyone who's ever spoken
to Lee, like, you know, there should really be a degree
for people who are, it's okay.
We know you're, you know, if you look at the degree
from the point of view, essentially,
it's a group of people going, we're going to put the
reputation of our whatever that this person is competent
at the thing that he or she or they says they are.
That is what, you know, a university degree gives you.
It's a bit of paper.
It means, you know, it's in the same way that, you know,
five pound notice is just a five pound notice.
It doesn't mean anything unless you believe in it.
It's the same with university degrees.
So I've often thought like, you know, bring people into a room
yeah, you're smart enough to be like the David Einstein, you know,
he released three papers without ever having a doctor or anything.
And then, okay, you're instantaneously.
We recognize you as as knowing your stuff, basically.
There could be a way to do that.
It's a little, it's a little more difficult today
because of the tools mentioned earlier.
Yeah, but yeah, I find it in a one-to-one conversation.
It's fairly easy to source out somebody.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, one-to-one, correct.
Yeah, yeah.
And in this situation, it's like, okay,
this person is responding well to non-standard
ways of doing stuff.
So let's, let's see how we can help them.
And yeah, okay.
But that's a, that's a whole other topic.
Maybe subject of around table sometime.
Yeah, absolutely.
Password store with the pass command.
Try Unix-like password manager from Clat 2.
And never heard of this, but it was actually quite interesting.
It uses GPG and old favorite of Clat 2s.
And you take your file, it has a file and follows a format.
So each file for each site follows a format.
And I think you can also pipe it into their extensions
for Chromium and Firefox as well.
Yep.
What do you think?
Tempted?
Oh, yeah, definitely.
You said, in fact.
And I said, great show.
I did not know Pass has add-ons.
Very nice.
I'll give it a try.
Also, are you, are you used,
are you still using slash developing credit?
Mentioned in HBR 3018, encrypted edit?
The credit project is a great example
of hackers enjoying free as-and-freedom software.
Happy hacking, Scotty.
I like to also include there as well with this information.
For any newcomers to the community,
definitely go back and check out that episode.
HBR 3018 by Clat 2.
He mentions Pass, the same project here again.
And he demonstrates just how flexible his mind is
using the source material from Pass to create his own thing,
which is the credit project mentioned in that comment.
And also, if you don't know,
Clat 2 had a long-running show called Canoe World Order,
which has come to an end.
But, well worth going back, listening to that as well.
Absolutely, yeah.
I would recommend that.
Actually, one of the, on the subject of this,
it was something I was listening to and I'm thinking,
this is definitely one I'm going to put in the to-do pile
for, especially in the winter months,
not a bit more time in front of the computer,
and a bit less time for it to do work outside.
Exactly, yes.
The next day we had noticed,
the SQL to get the next free slot.
Very specific to HPR.
But a great example of how you do unions,
joins and stuff like that.
And if you ever use relational databases at all,
and if you're getting it to that store,
you will come across these.
Very handy to use something like SQLite,
even to, you know, it just goes to a file,
and you don't need to run any services around thinking,
you can try out all of this stuff.
And it's very useful, like,
that you join two tables based on IGs and stuff.
And there are very good examples in this.
And it's something that you quite often need to do,
you know, taking information from very multiple tables
and stuff like that.
And Norris does an absolutely excellent job in explaining it.
So much so that, because I'm intimately familiar with this one,
because I've copied and pasted and used it already,
and it's been running for months.
So, but I was able to follow this in my head,
without having to refer to the show notes,
which are excellent, by the way, as well.
Thank you for that.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, I'm not an SQL user at all, to be honest.
So I was worried for the first, you know,
when it was introduced a lot,
this is going to be way over my head.
No, it actually wasn't.
He did a really good job, as you see,
explaining it.
And well, certainly for somebody who's not that familiar with it,
the show notes were certainly a big help,
but they weren't action necessity.
So I would say excellent job here.
Yeah, one other thing, Norris has other shows
using SQL and SQL Lite.
I went back to his very first show,
where he spoke about using Bash with SQL Lite
and a technique that he used there,
that I have notes to use that technique here
to practice with SQL Lite using these same techniques.
Yeah, very good.
You see?
Perfect.
And how did I go for you?
Or is that an upcoming show?
That's an upcoming.
I had to decide for the other things.
Well, cut it there.
Mapping municipalities' digital dependencies
by Trollocoster asking your help
in mapping public services for governmental websites.
And basically trying to find out a way to,
if you're local, you know,
if all the services are online, that's great.
You know, you don't have an option
and find streamlined and blah, blah, blah, blah.
But if you want to get your passport
and renewed or your driver's license renewed,
where are the services?
Is the website hosted locally in the community?
Is it hosted locally in your region?
Is it hosted locally in your country?
Or is it somewhere else?
Is it dependent on a large
monopolies who can shut down your email
and prevent you accessing?
Yes, not that that would ever happen.
Plus.
So that has a lot of people here,
especially in Europe,
looking at where the servers are hosted.
And this is related to the topical,
at the moment, one of the international criminal courts,
emailed this hosted on Microsoft platform.
And one of their people's email accounts was locked out
even though they're outside of the US.
So that was interesting.
Now, I'm hoping I'm not getting this,
my memory jumbled up, it's been the wrong episode,
but I think somebody speaks about the contingencies
and just the fact that there are some
who still have the proper contingency
where they can operate with pencil and paper.
Yeah, this was the same episode,
right, I'm just making sure.
I was really into City here that
I think was Switzerland,
they said about the airport,
which we're totally able to run.
Yeah, I thought it was Belgium,
also Belgium was there.
But I was thinking about internationally,
that could actually prove their headache in itself,
because if they were the only country
that got it to run,
yeah, the planes could take off,
but could they land safely on the other side
if it was a international flight?
Yeah, exactly.
Well, it's always
amazed me that we believe a lot of things,
that the whole world is going to come to an end,
it's going to be a flash,
and all of our technical stuff is going to stop working.
Yeah, the world was able to fight two international wars,
World War One and World War Two,
before the event of computers,
just using pen and paper,
and local communications,
and the organization that was required
in order to do such a massive global thing
before technology was in place like the internet.
So, on the other hand,
we did have telegraph networks.
So, we have radio,
part to know,
heart to know.
We have the Roman Empire.
There you go.
I'm sure they must have used Facebook and all the other social media.
Oh, yeah.
Anyway, can you please stop me going off
and the tangent?
Because for some reason,
I've been here for tangent ISIS tonight.
Some guy in the interest,
you had a comment.
Really, please.
Yes.
See, I'm smart about it.
I've put all my tangents in writing.
Good math.
I agree with the intentions.
This seems a noble goal,
and maybe fun to learn about how most of our critical systems
are bottlenecked by fang
with the major companies.
That's what fangs are.
The...
Hold on, I got lost.
Oh, I imagine there isn't a one-size-fits-all
approach for something like this.
Different techniques used per locale,
major systems,
governance,
may rotate services,
depending on budget restrictions,
regulations,
such as the GDPR
or public bidding systems.
Here today,
gone tomorrow.
Thanks for the show, Scotty.
Well, one of us has planned it at least.
Yeah, I think what he's doing is great,
finding out all this information,
but I don't know how long you can actually maintain it
or how long it'll be relevant for
before things are swapped out.
And again, depending on your government,
there's no telling how long they actually hold
those contracts for those services.
So, you know, it's...
What I think is noble.
I think the aim of the project was not to find that information,
but find out how you would find out that information.
So, if there's an API from your government website,
for example, that provides you with this,
which, you know, seems minimum,
and failing that, that you can look up the DNS records,
or failing that, that, you know,
you can find it in the company records, or...
So, what he was asking was,
in your country or in your region,
what are the ways that you can find out
where the stuff is hosted,
so that you can track
where it is hosted in the future as things change?
I imagine that'll put you on a list over here in the US.
Shall I read your comment, then?
On the next show, Isaac Asimov,
the rest of Asimov's foundation stories,
or do you want to read out all your own comments?
That one we could probably delete.
That download was terrible,
so we could, like, skip all of that comment.
Yeah, so you had a comment there about where you can find it.
The following day was a one
had what omnithentance makes to my brain and your brain.
Is social media good for you, be it Feddy, or not?
And I had a comment on that, which was interesting show.
I found this report from the BBC on a study
from Birmingham University,
saying that there is lack of evidence
to suggest money phones and school alone
makes a difference when it comes to students' grades,
behavior, and well-being.
Link provided.
And then, Antoin responds with
nice study, smiley face, old school, like that, actually.
I can, thanks very much for the report on the study,
published this year, it presented us as the first study
in the world to look at school phone rules
alongside measures of public health and education,
at least peer-reviewed.
So it's nice that we have a first conclusion on the topic.
As the law is recent in Brazil as a whole,
states were clearly regulating it sparsely.
We only have perceptions of students and teachers
and specialist talk, no clear data studies.
But I would bet one to be conducted here,
still 2025 or beginning of 2026
with data collected or early and systematically.
And then when it comes,
I'll try to remember to post that here,
to share the same or another conclusion,
being outlined from another socials too.
Thanks very much for contributing with my knowledge
in a subject I appreciate,
and maybe other listeners of it too.
Very good.
Then there's my comment from my two cents at Antony.
Conversations have gotten worse.
I find that users often listen to respond,
not listen to understand.
I need to quickly respond.
The need to quickly respond is greater
than gaming perspective.
And then I also aim to comment that can
behold the awesome power of the United States educational system.
And there's a link to a very unfortunate situation.
Apparently there's a young girl who graduated high school
and is going to college and got accepted,
but she doesn't know how to read.
All right.
More like she is not able to read her right.
Lacks the is intellectually capable of doing it,
but has dyslexia severe dyslexia and can't read
nor write, but can speak, can operate at that level verbally.
Yeah, and you can tell it's the system that failed her there.
That's why, you know,
having had somebody as a parent of some kids
who has gone through this as well.
Yeah, the school system is exactly the same,
say about no offense, Kevin, but school systems
were designed to get 90% of the people through.
So 80% of the people through, actually,
they, you know, the bell curve, you get 80%
through more or less with a good education.
Then you have the 10% who are high,
holograph people who are highly gifted.
And they have issues as well,
bought usually because they're able to, you know,
cruise through exams.
They're also get flushed out the system.
And then on the other side,
you have the people who have other issues,
be it motoric, be it
dyscalculia dyslexia, nonverbal gaps in the
thingy profile, different types of autism, et cetera, et cetera.
It's not so up for that.
It's not, it's a factory for getting kids from A to B
and it's not set up for that.
And then it's a struggle.
You can't really be asking teachers
who have their job is to go through the syllabus
and get them out of the door to take the time away from that
and give them the care that these kids need.
Now, yes, there should be,
there should be dedicated teachers for that.
But it's also very hard.
When I was reading that, I was going,
does this girl have,
does this student have what level of learning difficulties is?
Does the person have the ability to,
is there something in their head that prevents them from seeing the letters
or typing the letters?
Are, you know, it's like,
there's more to it than that.
Sorry.
Yeah, they run.
They, she mentioned that she does benefit from special education
and she has brought up certain issues
with her special education instructor.
But what would happen?
What was the result of her bringing up issues?
We don't know that that was never mentioned.
Yeah, I, I mean, it sucks.
And yes, there should be more attention given to people
who have, you know, these weird edge cases,
not weird edge cases, but, yeah.
When I say,
an onstander, do you mean nonstander?
An onstander, yeah, but I also mean like,
you know, those 10% and 90% of the time,
I'm that 10%.
So, yeah, please don't be apologizing to me.
Certainly, I've been as critical as you like it from the education,
about the education system in this country
and that's coming from an educator.
Yeah, but in fairness, it is a, it's not ideal,
but it gets people edge cases.
And you have to, like we, you have thousands of kids,
you have to mass produce it.
But then you go, well, you know, it only costs,
then you have the bean counters, like you go,
oh, it costs, it's cost to meet this,
the exact same amount to, to teach these five kids
as it does us these 40 kids over here.
You know what I mean?
And that's, oh yeah, totally get it.
Yeah, that's a fact.
And the fact is, at the end of the day,
you're not actually, regardless of what parents might think
or the general public might believe,
kids are not being taught to live in the outside world.
They're not being taught life skills most of the time.
They've been taught to pass exams.
That's actually what they say.
Exactly.
You know, the job of most teachers,
I say this with a bit of a caveat,
because my guys don't sit exams,
but the job of most teachers to get them through exams.
That's it.
It doesn't actually matter if they understand it.
It's, do they understand how to answer the question about it?
And I personally found that frustrating myself
that I was there to learn.
And then you just had, it's a need to know, Ken.
Thankfully, some friends who would just go,
it's a need to know, you need to learn this
and you need to regurgitate it.
And like in four days, you can forget that you ever knew this.
Which is just, you know, I often say,
I quit school and then I started learning.
Yeah, totally agree with that.
Have we done Antoin's reply comment?
No, not for now.
I'm just thinking that before we end up missing it out.
So he replies with, at Scotty,
yes, good observation.
Thanks for sharing also from the other,
the other part was not directed to me.
But anyway, I read it, moving story,
sad outgoings, but with a powerful outcome
by Alicia and her supporters.
Grateful.
And I want to ask HBOR listeners,
right, I'm the kind of,
I try to edit out stuff that is political
or gives my point of view on stuff.
And I'm asking people, should I do that?
Would you be put off if I, you know,
I'm bringing, of course, I'm bringing my own biases.
I try not to, but normally I would go back
and edit out this last piece
because it's too much of my personal opinion.
So what I'm asking you to do is be mature
and not paint HBOR.
If you totally disagree with anything I say,
that's my personal opinion,
don't paint HBOR with that brush cause, you know,
you can have an opinion on this
and I can still pump out your show.
Even if I do or don't agree with your opinion
or even if you do or don't agree with my opinion,
if you don't want to meet.
Yeah, but I actually,
on a personal note here,
I actually think that's something
that we in general,
whether it's school kids or whether it's even adults,
we've lost the ability to do.
We can disagree and still be friends.
We don't have to hate each other we disagree with.
You know, so to be honest,
if we're actually making a point at times ourselves
of disagreeing on this show without,
you know, cut wanting to cut each other's throats,
then that's definitely something
that's actually a good thing to show.
Yeah, you can disagree and still talk to each other.
Well, I just mentioned that in my previous comment there,
you know, people listening just so that they can quickly
respond to a thing versus listening
to better understand a person.
And remember to like, share and subscribe
this video and give your comments.
Join us a picture.
No, actually,
don't bother leaving a comment in this show.
Record your own opinion.
And so just in the show.
Yeah.
And in to answer your question, Eric Chan?
Yes, we want more stuff from you.
Yeah, I'm just thinking maybe round tables,
we used to do a lot of that back in the day.
So, you know, round tables, parents and education,
that sort of thing, round tables on,
on, you know, the best way to,
to educate kids or an education,
or have a radio or whatever.
But that's bringing a few people from different backgrounds.
And as you say, Kevin,
we don't have to agree,
but we can take the other person's input
and think about it, you know?
Yes, absolutely.
Now, speaking of something that couldn't possibly cause
a cause debate is understanding, again,
a 10 again, a decibel scale.
This is in not, yeah, it is in the ham radio section.
And you will be asked about this whole DB thing
comes up everywhere.
Kevin, you've come across a note out.
No, you haven't.
Because you haven't got your license.
I'm thinking of thinking of Dave.
Dave, yes.
Why haven't you got your license Scotty?
Why haven't you got your license?
Anyway, ham radio, you're going to come across this a lot.
And it's kind of off-putting until you realize
it's the reason ham radio guys use logarithmic scales
is because it allows very quick addition,
very quick you to manipulate stuff using addition.
And it goes back to the whole use of slide rules and stuff.
And somebody wants to, you know,
do a show about the background of logarithmic scales
and stuff.
Please feel free to do so.
But you're going to come across this all the time
in order to pass your exam.
So depending on the location that you're in.
And Paul did an excellent show on what the various different
DBs are and how to use them,
calculate them.
And best information is the best news for you.
Is that it's here in the show notes?
And everything is also given out with examples.
So it's fantastic.
No comments on that.
And indeed, there are no comments on the next episode
which was changing font in Arch Linux Willand.
How also changed his default font for the system.
And I had never, I think I messed with fonts on my system once or twice
and just messed it up so badly I haven't bothered to touch it since then.
But I can see why you might want to do it.
It made me fear, you know,
I'm going to be tempted by the dark side there.
Am I going to install a new system font and see what happens?
Anyone tempted?
Nope.
I did it once in the past, but it was simple.
I needed to add a Microsoft font for a project,
a school project, and that was simple enough.
But after that, after listening to the show, especially,
nope.
Yeah.
Nothing wrong.
Nothing about the show, but yeah, yeah.
Weirdly.
It feels, I'm not saying the show was bad or anything.
Please don't misunderstand.
But it feels a bit too finicky in hands on.
Yeah, but it depends on the district you're running here.
It's like arch.
You're definitely going to run into that.
And also quite a lot of stuff now requires
as moved to UTFH.
So we've got a lot of lifts and smiley faces and all sorts of stuff,
where you now previously could have gotten away without that,
you know, just a basic ASCII rendering.
Now things have moved on.
So there are times when you do need to change the font.
In fact, just the other day, my wife's window 11 work PC,
the fonts all completely changed to like tiny,
italic fonts because they had installed a printer driver from HP.
So this is good information to know that if suddenly you don't get enough of a day,
and then all your fonts are changed for some reason,
how you can get it back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'll say this is definitely the old power user version of 2D fonts.
There's no GUI here.
I think when you're messing with this stuff,
Oxo is like definitely on the side of the map,
where there's like hereby dragons.
But good episode.
Everybody should do this.
You know, in a virtual machine, crack up a virtual machine,
install a Windows manager and then mess with the fonts
and see what breakage comes because it's hilarious.
It also shows you which systems are linked to each other.
You know, some systems will have no problem.
They're getting their fonts from something else.
And others are completely and totally bored.
Yeah. Now, Windows is a different animal altogether.
If you want pain and suffering, deal with fonts and windows,
that'll make you frustrated enough to just burn down the hard drive.
But in Linux, at least there's a path.
In Windows, you have to deal with the registry.
And you don't want it.
Yeah.
The following day, we had browser and dedicated apps
on a mobile phone.
Traditional browsers can reduce the number of dedicated apps
on a smart mobile phone and is by Henry Kerman.
And I couldn't agree more.
And I quite often run apps on a mobile phone.
The only downside is if it's offline,
if I'm somewhere where there's no data, for example,
or where there's a spotty Wi-Fi.
Yeah, I would totally agree.
It's, I reckon for most people, you know what I mean?
This might be actually a good, what's what I'm looking for.
Any of research or something,
if you can call your child's phone that.
If you could actually clean your child's phone completely,
all the crappy apps that you, well,
we guys seems to have no pain up any.
But if you've got rid of most of them and replace them
just with going on to whatever browser you've got
and just have placed the shortcuts onto the screen,
it will be easy to see how much of a different
selection notice.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
Scotty, you commented.
Yeah, quick comment there.
I agree, mobile apps actors restrict the browsers
and the apps will limit the user more than they ever will
assist the user and require root-level privileges
for, quote, reasons.
Go for it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and I'm wondering why, why certain apps
could possibly need internet access,
the ability to make a phone call, the ability to, yeah.
Yeah, your flashlight needs access to all of your messages,
your contacts, everything.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, clearly this guitar tuner needs access to emails
and the ability to take over your phone
because it just needs access to a guitar tuner yet.
Yeah, exactly.
Following the cable on the management,
Manamann, the hours I spent looking for
the charge master 9,000 NGX pro enterprise addition.
Until I went and looked at the photos and oh, okay, thank you.
And the two photos are like,
rats nest of cables and a rats nest of, of, you know,
police report like the fire appears to have started in a drawer somewhere.
Yeah, you might, do you think he didn't have
the actual name there?
I imagine the insurance company might be interested in those.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
I could just imagine.
No, no, it was bought legitimately.
Yeah, yeah.
It's got to see, Mark, your comment was.
It's over 9,000, which is a reference.
I don't know how many people will get that.
We all do it, but you've mastered it.
I now require a charge master.
I'll make a note to attempt this arson clear scroll project someday.
Velcro for all Scotty.
Excellent, excellent, excellent.
Although I did like his the fact that he had
we stickers or something to label.
Yeah, the label of cables.
I liked that.
It was actually, it was a few blumen weeks too late for me,
because the week I had, he had a very specific charger.
For, it was a Raspberry Pi project, what do you call it?
The GPI case looks like an old-style game board.
Yeah.
And not the GPI 2, it was.
And it's got a very, very blumen distinctive
charging charger, and I could not find the dash thing.
And then I had to order a new one.
Of course, there was a, got the connection number.
Ordered that.
It was quite pricey, because obviously there wasn't
that many places selling it.
And I went, wait a minute, what's that coming
to the back of your computer?
You are kidding me.
He had left the charging cable to the back of the computer.
So that would have actually been quite nice.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, batteries never...
Again, the following day, we had spicy tavern,
spicy roleplay, spicy tavern, spicy roleplay for degenerates.
Yes, another one that I had no clue what he was on about.
But the website says,
it's an advanced, locally deployed interface designed,
facilitated, deep interactive roleplaying experiences,
based on the large language models such as Claude and Gemini.
Similarly, tavern allows users to engage in custom-built characters
that they can bold according to their own preferences.
This tool was created by this blah, blah, blah,
and the silly tavern in great community,
very diversions of taverns, AI, etc, etc.
So obviously, not something that I would ever like to use
as I don't do role-playing games.
What do you guys think?
Yeah.
Yeah, I once I saw the spicy portion of it and realized
he was going where I thought he was going,
then, uh, no, I decided I would not do this particular project.
And another reason it was the whole, you know,
LLM thing.
I'm not a big fan of it myself.
Yeah, I kind of took me a while.
I started listening to this on my commute and I'm kind of going,
wait a minute, what the heck is he talking about here?
And then actually I did figure it out towards the end.
Yeah, it's, I mean, interesting enough episode,
but not something I'm ever going to touch with a large pool.
Yeah, it's, uh, it's interesting.
The operator is big into the old LLMs and stuff,
so yeah, it's right up as Ali, I guess.
I'm just used for character generation,
but I, I get the feeling it's quite adult by times.
Yeah, that and I got a feeling that are probably
landy and trouble somewhere.
So you might want to put a,
if you're going to deal with this,
just keep in mind not safe for work.
Uh-huh.
Um, the next day we had a show called,
did she say she flew light aircraft
where Elizabeth expands on her experience with light aircraft
and how it relates to her geekiness and very interesting
upbringing from Elizabeth and great to get a background on
her, uh, her background completely, you know,
what she took as normal.
A lot of people I think and we go, oh my god, that was cool.
Yeah, totally.
I mean, I thought I'd enjoy the whole thing.
It was, and especially like you say,
I mean, it was literally just, she says,
I jumped on a plane and did this in the same way.
I'd say I got a bus to town.
Yeah, yeah.
Both, uh, both her parents are, uh, uh, pilots
and they also spent some time in Africa
and she went to boarding school,
like it was actually a lot of, lots of interesting stuff.
I love the actual story about her.
I mean, I thought this was such an amazing
about she remembers flying.
I think it was her father flying kind of in.
So she could see like inside of like the active volcano
and the kind of greenery and everything.
Totally amazing.
And then, and then showing later,
the kind of after it had, the lava started
spewing again, seeing the difference.
You're like, wow, what an experience.
Yeah, but it was also said that the same, like,
as you say yourself,
or remember that field before the build test goals, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, she, she got me with a statement she mentioned
in the show about the plane being held together by duct tape.
Yeah.
I began thinking, you know, as a kid,
maybe you would think too much about it,
but today, like, oh, goodness me.
That and I annoyed everyone in the house because she kept,
when she said that the plane was called up Bonanza,
I kept then going around the house singing it.
The Bonanza theme song.
I don't know if you, well, I don't know if you guys.
Yeah, I remember.
No, it was, yeah.
Yeah, so I kept doing that.
So it was great.
I enjoyed the show.
Excellent.
Archer 72 says, thanks for sharing.
Thanks for sharing your flight experiences.
It was interesting that both you and my wife grew up in Oregon.
Those were my dad was also a Vietnam veteran.
He liked gas powered planes when I grew up.
The type which were fly by where
or control line flying,
which I just looked up archived.org,
and there's a link to cocksmodels.com.
It was not quite the link I just put up,
which was solid blue,
which I think may have been a kit build.
Anyway, thanks for the trip down memory lane.
Looking forward to more shows, Archer 72.
And Kevin O'Brien was also at a comment.
I love the show.
Great show.
I loved hearing about your flying experiences with your family.
Super.
And Norrist gives us a BSD overview
and free BSD, open BSD thingy.
About time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's true.
That's true.
I look how I use my router.
Home router.
That's a show.
Workstations.
That's a show.
Nas.
That's a show.
Recommendations.
Show, show, show, show, show, show, show, show, show.
And ZFS series right there.
No pressure, Norrist.
Someone do days on.
Dave Morris.
Thanks for this.
And you have to.
There's a gift.
Oh, well, that had to be a carry then.
No, do it without the extra.
It's fine.
I have never used modern BSD variants.
Though at my work, I've used various BSD versions
like SonOS, HPUX,
Ultrix.
I've had the MPS, MIPS,
deck stations running Ultrix on my desk for many years
as part of a network called deck artnet.
Oh, yes.
Technology.
Yep.
I'm tempted to install one of these BSDs
on my spare machine just to see what it's like now.
Don't make a great show,
not along with all the long promised episodes
that he has done,
but not that I'm bitter, Dave.
What is he with my HPR work now?
Oh, yeah, Dave.
Oh, yeah.
Well, to be fair, he is putting it with me.
Now he's not even getting credited for his HPR work.
But that's his own choice.
I would like to ask him, Norrist,
to if you could do another show on your BSD router,
I went to the Open BSD website,
looking for that project he was talking about,
about setting up the BSD router
and also checked out his show
where he discussed running Open BSD on his router,
because I like the sound of it,
the benefits that he put up about Open BSD.
And I just couldn't find the details
that were satisfied my curiosity.
So if he could do another show,
maybe even just drop a couple links
or something as well, that'd be great.
Fantastic.
The following day, we had Ron,
doing what he should do,
which is responding with a show
another long windy comment.
Gosh, on this episode,
Ron talks about his experiences
with the Unix command find
and the print zero option relations
to Oxo's experience.
So this is in relation to Oxo's
how to use the XR command,
our Oxo show from earlier in the month.
Which was with the R-Sync and print zero.
That's the money.
And Oxo, as I said,
Hyron, very interesting episode.
I did a quick search and learned
that besides XR, Grip, Sort and WC
can receive null terminates
input via the dash set option.
Also, it seems that Tara can handle
null terminated filenames by the use of null,
certainly more to explore for me
regards Oxo.
And Oxo, the ear security,
that take up that chalase,
that they say far as they do.
Anyway, somebody do Dave's show.
Right, so Dave responds with Hyron.
This was great.
I had some similar thoughts to you
and made a comment on show 4373.
You win more HPR points by making a show about them.
I have a to-do note myself to myself
to prepare a show on find,
but I've never gotten round to it.
It's a very powerful and useful tool
and someone should talk about it.
Similarly with XRs,
as you said, cheers Dave.
Dave is going to fill up the queue pretty soon.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, this is the danger of putting in comments.
You know, we remember you existed.
We'll never forget, Dave.
Absolutely not.
Playing Civilization for Part 9.
Using Wonders to help you win.
And as Kevin already explained,
that Ahuka is going through the series of games.
Same game, different ways to win.
And as with the Libra Office episode,
Kevin or Ahuka went through every single episode.
And every single application and every single menu item
in order to cover completely.
He appears to be doing that here with Civilization.
Yeah, from the way he spoke.
It sounded like this was him actually clocking off on Civil 4.
I'm not saying he's not going to restart once in a fight,
but this did sound like it was a wrapping up one.
And yeah, he wrapped up on actually talking a bit
and I mentioned earlier a bit the
you can't have multiple wonders of the world, etc.
You can't have multiple like
Eiffel Tower or Hanging Gardens of Babel on, etc.
But what he did was he went through quite a few of them
and actually said where they were good
and what was actually really detailed about it was
he actually said where they were best.
Because of course with Civ,
you go through the eras.
Different things and in different times.
Yeah, I really enjoyed this show.
Yeah, and in Jamer's speak that would be called
their OP overpowered.
But yeah, I think he is wrapping up on the Civ 4.
Yeah, it definitely did sound like that yet.
No, great episode.
I actually, you know,
if ever at the Coffee Corner,
anything about Civilizations 4 comes up,
I'm covered.
Which is actually, let's face it, we'll be hates.
The dude in HPR has done a series on that,
which is basically all I ever say at the Coffee Corner.
Now, would this make a hooker the HPR gamer,
the resident gamer here?
Fine by me.
I mean, he's done more shows on gaming than anyone else has.
Yeah, then fight more.
It's a lot of shows there as well.
Like you guys, yeah?
Well, to be fair, he's done a lot of table-tut.
Well, they're still games don't get it wrong,
but the video games or digital video games versus
actual roleplay table top games.
Yeah, but as a non-gamer, that's like,
Oh, Ubuntu is not Fedora.
Anyway, that's all the shows.
I definitely do think that there's a difference there.
I was all the shows, guys,
thanks for all the shows.
And there were some comments on previous shows.
So this one was on PODNAN like,
Vigrant by Klatu.
This is how I use PODNAN for my desktop.
And we have some guy in the internet, say.
It's show time.
I'm enjoying PODNAN and stumbling into this show.
I agree, containers for headless digital testing is very nice.
It's also, it's so nice.
Why not go at splunking?
See you around, Sky.
Interesting, interesting.
Good idea. I like that.
Claudio Miranda did a show where he introduced HPR listeners to the Tildiverse
and Lee and Zero has given us two links there.
One to youtrana.com and the other to dimension.sh
where they give us two links to another public access, Unix.
Then we had Archer 72 talking about Piper TTX using the Piper Voices and Archer 72's comments
will be read by.
I found a Firefox extension that uses Piper Voices,
listed as experimental.
It is called Redalout, link included.
Very good.
And John the Knows Guy had a show, his first I believe,
my ridiculously complicated DHCP setup at home and Windigo says as advertised.
We were promised a ridiculously complicated DHCP setup and did you deliver?
Thanks John, I really enjoyed this episode and I also
thought with my home network and I'm taking a lot of inspiration from your setup.
So the next one is My First Episode by Axel and we had Torren Doyle, Archer 72 saying welcome,
hello, welcome aboard, welcome aboard, looking forward to your next show and the way
Axel saying thank you all.
And then the final one is Trickster saying lessons learned,
moderating technical discussion panels, tips for effectively moderating tech discussions
and preparation of audience engagement.
Kevin, can you do that one please?
It is high Trickster, great talk, thank you, while I may never face such a situation,
I would appreciate to get a link to one or more of such panel shows to listen to it,
Cheers Rito.
And that is all the comments, there was no discussion on the mailing list, although
there was much tears and consternation on the on the HBOR Matrix channel when I realized
that I had in fact been backing up my non-marking directory and I'd been working directly on
the wrong directory and did a get pull and completely overalls the all the work that I had done
on the HBOR processing script.
Sorry, I used the bad word there but it really was appropriate, it was, I was in literal
tears after it was tired, had a serious, serious stuff going down and then that happened,
of course that's why it happened, but I've been hoping that I'd be on the backup disc, hoping
I'd be somewhere else but not. Luckily though I had most of the stuff on my bash history
where I've been trying it out and I saved that and it was at least able to get things
up and running using, getting the functions back up and running where it could pull the shows,
but then there was a huge backlog again and I was like doing tomorrow's show today and the
internet archive was taking so slow and I had to do stuff manually, but kind of every cloud has
a silver lining, I was able to get it done and the code is in a lot better shape now
and I've made a lot of the functions and I'm in the process of going back to the other functions
so that I can run any given function independently and it does its own independent checks to see
whether I have enough information to do what I need to do and have I produced the stuff that I
needed to produce so that's quite good at me. It will make processing and replacement of modules
a lot easier and making other tooling like where we need to re-encode or there's a new
and you format becomes available I should be able to use these functions to you know find out
what the metadata for the show was so I can update the tags and stuff so but it was a hectic
hectic month but I am now pushing to me and I don't care Ron it's better to push it wrong
than not push it at all. So in the business we call that a re-factor?
aha yeah yeah cold re-factoring that's what it was. Was it rapid disassembly?
a rapid cold re-factor in this one huh?
I'm changing old rapid cold, rapid cold re-factor and you if there's one thing that hasn't been
rapid it has been this episode and it's largely down to me sorry about that everybody but there you go
um do you have anything else to share? nope as well. No I'm the same yes glad to be back actually
after a few months off so if you don't want me back on then please do come and replace me.
except it. Anyway tune in tomorrow for another exuditing episode of Hacker.
Publum Lake. Radio Lake!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click
on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided
by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On the Sadois status today's show
is released on our creative commons attribution 4.0 international license.
