Episode: 4289
Title: HPR4289: Welcome Nuudle
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4289/hpr4289.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:34:17

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4289 for Thursday the 9th of January 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Welcome Noodle.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet, and is about 42 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Eskody brings a new friend to the table, kicking and screaming.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
Today, I'm here with the infamous Noodle.
Noodle, how are you?
I'm doing good.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have met Noodle approximately like, I don't know,
four or five eons ago, which translates to, roughly, was it been about a month,
new, something like that?
Yeah, that sounds about right.
I think I joined late October, so that makes sense.
So basically, we've known each other so long now, where I can add her in my will.
That's how much I've known her now, right?
We've been playing an awesome game.
I think I've discussed it in the community before, but very briefly, but the game is called
seven days to die.
Very fun game.
Noodle, how long have you been playing seven days?
I think the first time I played it was in like 2019.
I don't know what version that was, but it was, I just remember like, when I first played
I was like, oh my gosh, this game, it looks very old.
It just wasn't up to the times.
It rough around the edges.
Yeah, it's definitely rough around the edges.
So yeah, not too long, but I think, I mean, I've only, I popped in like once a year,
but I think this is the longest time I've played it like consecutively.
Like this is the first time, like I've actually given it like a playthrough, I would say.
But yeah, so I think, because my first joint, I was playing with my friend, and he was the
one that got me into it, and then he got bored of it because, I don't know, it's just
he has ADHD, so he's like, oh, he can only play a game for like, I don't know, a week
or so, and then he has to go jump to something else.
So I still had that like, it's like, oh, I still want to play.
So that's when I found the server, but I'm still very much a new, well, I wouldn't call
you a new from watching the way that you're playing.
Seems like you know what you're doing to me, right?
You're not doing anything.
No one else isn't doing, right?
You know how to build your own structures and get, well, we'll get into the game mechanics
in a bit.
I want to hop into it too soon without explaining a lot of background.
So for anyone that doesn't know about Seven Days to Die, it's a zombie, horde shooter crafting
survival game, right?
Like all the different mechanics into it.
It's open world first person.
You're going to be running around doing quests and building, well, structures to survive
in.
Now, Nudo, where you are today in the server where I met you.
Would you call this a fun experience?
I think so.
I think if it wasn't especially for like the people that I met on here, I'm not sure if
I would have stayed as long, but I'd say like it's, it's been very enjoyable, especially
with all the quirks and along all the people I met along the way, so for sure.
And I'm playing on windows right now.
That's how I joined the game.
The game is coded to work on both windows and Linux, the seven days to die.
Are you playing on windows?
Yes.
So we're both joining in from windows.
The server I think is in the United States.
They have multiple different game servers.
So if anyone in the community wanted to get this game and was worried, rather than not,
they can run it in open source or on your steam deck or anything like that.
The game is coded to work on both platforms.
So have at it.
Now where we are in the game, we're late game, we're getting prepared for a wipe.
The late game is when you have all of your super powerful weapons, armor, everything.
And what we have learned in the early game, yes, it's better to build sort of this indestructible
fortress where you can attack the enemy.
But it's very difficult for the enemy to attack us.
Late game, however, that takes all of the fun out of it and it's, you know, you get bored.
Have you been feeling the same thing, Noodle?
I think so.
I think it's really funny how like usually people at late game, they have all these, you
know, very large horde bases with all kinds of like turrets and traps and stuff like
that.
And then I feel like we're kind of doing the opposite.
But I think it's definitely made it a lot more fun.
But yeah, I definitely feel like I was getting a little bit bored towards the end game.
I think that's why I like, I notice a lot of people don't stay is because it's like what
day 900 in the game and I think everyone dips around that time.
So that kind of makes it a little bit more boring with us, not that many people.
Can you describe horde night for somebody who's never played a game?
Yeah, so horde night or I guess blood moon is when exactly on day seven or every seven
days a horde of zombies like ways of zombies will come to you kind of like, I guess, call
a duty black ops zombies.
And pretty much you're just, you're out there trying to survive and defeat the horde.
But every time you think it's done, it waves just keep coming.
So that's where you can get creative and build all kinds of different bases or to stay
alive in or run around and shoot them down, whatever you like.
Very accurate.
I enjoy horde night the most out of it.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
There's all these different aspects of the game.
I enjoy it.
I don't mind collecting my resources, right, because I enjoy a bit of resource management.
I don't mind questing, but horde night is that moment where you and all your friends
get together and do everything new to just talk about.
But I enjoy that part the most like everyone getting together trying to survive.
We have done something a little bit crazy and instead of building a fortress where we're
going to be fighting and we're basically untouchable by the zombies because that's boring.
We like the idea of signing a waiver and jumping into this death trap where there's no other
way out and the zombies are just going to flood in on you and your backs against the
wall.
It's kind of cramped as well.
We were doing some testing where you're not going to be as cramped, right, where you
can kind of get pinched into a corner and they'll just mob you to death.
So we've been doing some testing to make sure that wouldn't happen, but it's going to
have a bit of just a slight bit of claustrophobia around you as you're in this tiny room and
just hundreds come pouring in on you.
Now with our weapons, I think we'll manage, but the challenge is definitely there.
For my testing, what did you learn?
I learned that when people build those bases, those elaborate horde bases that pretty much
don't let the zombies touch you.
There's a lot of thought into it.
There's a lot of consideration to how those zombies path and I guess really just like how,
all right, it's interesting because people, you have to take the solution like how to make
it look cool at the same time, but then also how to make it functional and I've noticed
a pattern in every single horde base that I've been to is that there are a lot of cheese
going on.
Like, I don't even know, it's very cheesy, they put all kinds of barriers around, they
like, the zombies can't touch you, they're going up all these stairs and winding around
and just, I don't know, it's interesting.
I think that's one thing that makes seven days diet a good game is because it's also
like tower defense.
There's a mix of tower defense and not just the survival and zombies, but that part
too.
I think, I think people have more fun building the bases and they do actually like fighting
at them.
I agree, seeing the results of your work, watching all your friends pile together and
this thing that you've built and then seeing them fight it out in it is fun.
However, most of the bases are just too darn safe, what is with all this safety?
We're supposed to be hurt.
We're supposed to be panicking and running around going, oh my god, I'm bleeding out.
Somebody heal me, you know, we're supposed to try and throw a Molotov to hit the enemy,
but the enemy got too close and sort of swatted the Molotov as I threw it.
So now every one of us are on fire trying to get away.
That's the fun of it.
By the way, I think I saw you and one of the hordes do that.
I saw your corner just explode in the flame and I couldn't help but laugh.
Oh yeah, yeah, there's been some definitely rough times in hordes nights.
One thing I think it's hilarious just how this like start not hilarious, but just interesting
is how it started.
It's just by someone who got trapped in a POI while they're doing a quest, POI's point of
interest, right?
I don't even know.
Yeah.
They're like, oh my god, it's just as fun.
We almost died.
And then I don't know, were you there the first time or did you join the second time when
it was kind of a little bit more planned out?
I joined the second time.
You mean at the theater?
Yes.
I joined the second time and I'm trying to think of who it was.
Was it Pai, something or other who did it or?
Spice.
Oh, Spice Weasel.
Yeah, it was him.
I think that's how it's just funny.
He was just like, he was asking for help.
Like, hey, whoever on the server wants to help me, we're stuck in a theater.
And I think, I don't even know how many people joined at least.
I think we had a whole party.
But I would say that was the most fun I've had.
I think everyone agreed.
But I think you and I were the only ones that continued and ran with it because it is
tough.
You're dealing with a lot of zombies coming in and you're just not used to that kind
of thing.
Whenever you're always in like a hard base during blood moon, but I wish you were there
the first night.
I just think like what made it great was just there was no planning.
I think the only thing we did was block up some doors that were on the left side or whatever.
And we just huddled down in the basement part and prayed that everything would be fine.
But yeah, that's how it all began.
And that's exciting.
Now, for people who don't understand, they're probably wondering, well, zombies just running
in.
If you could lock the doors, what's the harm?
What you don't understand, zombies can actually break through walls in this game.
They will literally tear your house off the frame if you don't have structured properly
and all of that stuff.
What a lot of players have done.
Like she mentioned with the cheese, they've done all these bunch of tricks and crafty
nonsense to eliminate the threat that the zombies are meant to bring to you.
And just fighting in a place like the theater where none of this cheese and preparation
has been done to make the enemy just like a 99% predictable where none of that has happened
and you're just in there just it's dark.
There's a storm outside and you can just hear the horde swarming on you.
You can hear blocks breaking where they're tearing down walls.
So you're looking at the door, fighting those that are rushing through the door.
But all of a sudden there's a hole in the wall and there's a few running through that.
And now you have to change positions because that first area you were fighting in is uncompromised.
And now people are getting hurt and you're running and fighting and just trying to survive.
And you realize even though all of this is happening, it's still only like what a few
minutes since the horde starts.
So you got all night of this to go on with and that is just oh so good.
Yeah, I think in our server is about was it 30 minutes of of a blood moon?
They need 30 30 minutes, yeah.
The blood moon is by far my favorite, but man, once you eliminate all the cheesy bases
and things like that, just getting that moment back.
Now in our base that we designed, it is, it is also a design structure.
However, it is designed to eliminate all of the safety.
And the only thing that is predictable is that they will get you that it is, that's
the predictability that we have installed into this structure.
So there is a funnel at the very front of a flat structure where all of the zombies
know to just pour and through.
And we've designed it in such a way to where they're not interested in any other part of
the structure, but the part where they're going to get you.
We've made that little structure where you can kind of basically get yourself cornered
into.
We've made that nice and shallow.
So there's a lot of back scraping the concrete as you're squirming around in there.
But they're going to get you.
That is what you know from the moment you walk in.
So you signed your waiver saying, I will not sue based on what happens to me in here.
And you go in there, you know, say whatever ritual or whatever you have to before it starts
and good luck.
And I feel like I'm always having to like give a, not Connor to know the name of a content
warning, but like a warning of like, hey, you're probably going to die.
So if you're not okay with that, this is not the place for you.
This space is not for you.
You have to though because so many players expect those super comfortable, you know, lay back
and have a cup of tea base.
You know what I mean?
You really don't have to fight this at your gun on the table and it'll automatically
shoot for you.
You don't really have to do anything that that's what they're used to now and it's lazy
and it's no fun anymore.
So when they say, hey, who's hosting this blood moon, yes, we're kind of eager to invite
them.
But like you mentioned, it best to go ahead and inform them of what they're getting
themselves in.
And I love it when they spawn or they teleport them in or they spawn in.
It's like, what is this?
Like where, where do I stand?
Like, what do I do?
And like, I'm like, oh, this is it.
Play with, where's the, I thought you said you have a base.
What do you do?
You guys are going to die in here.
What are you doing?
I love the 360 they make and they just look around.
They're like, they don't say anything.
You just kind of like, okay, it's too late.
I can't, I don't know where else to go.
So I guess I'm just going to be stuck here.
Yeah, it's like, okay, maybe he's trolling, right?
There's probably like a super fortified structure right behind me.
There's no way he's serious about this.
Look around real quick and oh my god, we're going to die.
Whenever the first time we started inviting people, I forgot their name and he's like
Tim or something.
They just like spawned in.
They're like, I keep saying something.
They're like, yeah, I think I'm going to go to the actual fort piece.
And we're like, no, we promise it's fun.
Please stay.
But it's not for everyone, but it is interesting because I tried looking like on, I typed
in like, I don't even know what to type in for.
Horde bases with no barriers or something.
I mean, I couldn't find a single one.
And I think there was one video that was titled like, no cheese space.
I think that's where I got the term from, but and it was still very cheesy.
Like if they do, I mean, nothing compared to what we have, like what we have is like
bare bones compared, you still had turrets and like electric fence, there's really nothing
out there.
No.
Do something like this because there's that simple don't the less do you do the better.
And that's why we're pioneering at noodle you and I, we're showing everyone the way.
Now what we're going to do on and probably get a screenshot of what this base looks like
as well.
Or I'll do a quick video or something like that.
Oh, matter of fact, once we get a reconstructed, if there's a Horde night in the meantime, I'll
probably record it and we can upload it on YouTube of us fighting in the base as we've
designed it.
And that way if others want to use it, I mean, go right ahead.
Yeah, that's like one thing I was thinking I was like, I'm straight posted to write or
people are going to like make fun of me.
But I think it's pretty cool.
I'm actually kind of proud of it.
Yeah, I am.
I'm very proud of it.
Now there has been some disappointing portions where we have certain friends on the server
that they're need to make everything safe.
You know, they just want to make it fluffy and cuddly and we're like, no, we like the
hard edges.
All right.
It's meant to be this way.
You know, like don't upgrade it and make it more dense and structurally sound and all
of that stuff.
No, it's meant to be flimsy.
It's meant to break at some point and you're meant to be stuck in it when it happens.
So a lot of people, they kind of get a little discouraged about that.
You know, hey, can we at least upgrade it to steel?
What about these parts right here?
Can we do that to steel?
You know, maybe it'd be better if we add this one that like, no, no, no, no, no, no,
we had nothing.
And that's one thing I thought was funny is like you, since I've been playing with you
and like very laid back and easy going, but as soon as we started like building this,
these bases, you really like, you really set your foot down.
You're like, this is how we're going to do it.
We're not doing it.
And I've never seen so much like, no, take that off.
That's not going to work.
And it's hilarious.
But yeah, it's just, it's interesting how like, this is just the norm.
I mean, not what we're doing, but the norm is just to make this fortress.
And I'm surprised that not, you know, other people don't do what we, what we're doing.
I mean, you've been playing it longer than I have, but I'm not sure if it's been,
could this be your first time playing on a server, right?
No, typically we self-host, so we'll just have our own little private server,
but this is my first time playing on just an open server like this,
especially where they have all these mods.
I typically don't play with mods because of some of the things that are happening
on this server where they have these, some of the weapons on this server are basically certified cheats.
Yeah, yeah, just curious if you ever like seen anything like,
because I feel like it's pretty rare.
It is rare because, yeah, it's crazy that it is.
I have not even done this, you know, just playing on, on our private worlds,
that me and my friends play on before I join this server and met you.
I have not decided to make a base that'll kill you, you know,
that has not ever been the plan, but now that is the plan.
This is the way.
Yeah, it's interesting how it all, like how it's been evolving to starting at POI,
and then we're like, oh, we're just going to POI hop,
and then now we have our own board base,
which I think, I think the hopping POI is still,
I think I would still be down to do that every once in a while,
just to kind of break up the monotony,
because eventually we're going to get tired of this base too, right?
Yeah, we have to break it up, you're right about that.
Now, about the POI hopping, we mentioned that we started in the theater.
Do you remember where we ended up at next after the theater?
Is it the, forgot the name of it, I think it's the Fort Bags?
We went to Red Mesa.
Oh, yeah, Red Mesa, okay.
And then after Red Mesa, we went to Fort Braggs.
What didn't we like about Fort Mesa, for God's sake?
Red Mesa, we learned that people cannot contain themselves,
and they just, they had to go on top of that tower.
Oh, my gosh, yeah, that one.
Yeah, and it just made the whole, now, so to give context,
we were down in this little cubby hole
that had this nice long ramp
with all the zombies were supposed to just rush you,
and you were supposed to look out and see the wave,
like a tsunami just, well, I don't think,
what is the one for tidal wave?
Well, I'll just say tidal wave.
You're supposed to see the zombies just rushing in toward you
and feel that rush as you're fighting them back.
Some of the people who took it in their heads,
now, no, we're going to go up here on this tower,
because that's a little bit safer,
and we're just going to shoot down on the zombies.
So then the zombies got all scattered,
and the pathing was all wrong,
and it ruined the experience.
I know, it was so unfortunate,
because we had a plan.
I remember you went scouting for a P-O-I to do this
Fortnite, and then you're like,
okay, we're doing it here,
and we're doing it down in the basement,
and it was so simple, we just,
I don't even know what exactly all we did.
I think we just, we just opened it.
We just opened it.
Yeah, we just opened it, opened it, and we're gonna,
in fight.
And then Dac was over here with his,
with his thing just going around the building
and knocking it down.
I'm like, please, just this one time.
And then we had some people that were up in the tower,
they're like, I don't like it down there.
We're going up here.
Yeah, it was chaotic, not the good kind of chaos.
Yeah, and see that's the thing.
I don't mind some creativity when it has direction,
when it has guidance, you know what I mean?
Being creative is fine when you have guidance,
but when you have no guidance at all,
that creativity can easily become destruction.
And that's where I think a lot of our friend Dac,
maybe he means well, but often he destroys
what we're intending to have,
and we gotta constantly keep throwing up these barriers
and hey, no, not that.
Cause one of the times we were in a theater
doing a horde night,
and our good buddy Dac decided to run around the outside
of the theater,
destroying all of the supports to the building
and caused a massive collapse of the building on us
during, or just before the horde night.
Now this might sound like it'll be more fun and more dangerous,
but what actually happened is all of the zombies
now didn't exactly have a path.
So it just created a large, laggy mess,
and it was very unfortunate.
Yeah, it's definitely,
it's been a challenge trying to find that like,
middle balance of having enough, you know,
not having the cheese and then not, you know,
having anything to where they're just coming in.
Cause you, you do gotta,
it's just a delicate balance of finding that like,
what's the perfect spot or perfect build
to have the optimal,
and it's been, it's been a challenge.
I think it's, I think what we've been doing
is more challenging than building a cheese space,
but a hundred percent.
But yeah, it's been a learning experience for sure.
So I look forward to even more of these adventures going on,
just picking a random POI like a gas station or something,
and just this is where we're doing it.
You know, no upgrades, nothing, no spikes,
we're just gonna shut the door and hope for the best.
And you know, a good idea is not even tell them
that we're host, just say, hey, we're stuck in a,
can you guys help us, or just say I got a good place
to do Horde Nyan and just trap everyone, chaos,
and then they'll realize, wow, this is actually fun.
Yeah, stay home.
That's how we'll start the trip.
We'll stay in our bases till like the last minute,
then we'll TP over to the place where we're gonna have it,
and then let them TP on us there.
So that way they don't know where it is ahead of time
and can't possibly do any sort of modifications.
Yeah, it's also at that point where you're like,
you're already freaking out and the trend was coming
and you're opening the keyboard or opening the text
to teleports, just gonna be too risky.
You might just die from that.
So that's a good plan.
We'll be also clear to the people that wanna join us.
Like we'll just let them know ahead of time,
like listen, if you want safety and security,
don't come with us.
That's the most we'll tell them right there.
That should let them know immediately, like,
oh, okay, well, I'm gonna go with Ms. B.
Or actually, no, Ms. B has been coming with us.
A lot of the time hasn't she?
Yeah, she helped make that one base or the-
For bags.
She helped the funnel, yeah, the funnel.
If for bags turned out really nice,
once we started getting our creative friend under control,
it just stopped making changes.
It turned out really nice.
And I miss it sometimes.
And it's like the inspiration.
Well, it's funny because we,
I think all we did was just borrow the flat terrain
and the bunker down there.
And then we just kind of added stuff
as we went that worked out.
Yeah, we just hacked on it, you know,
to start punching another hole in the wall over here.
See how they came in through there?
Okay, maybe that's nice,
but how about wideness area over there?
And, you know what, turn it into a funnel.
You don't need just a stairwell.
Turn it into a funnel.
You know, it, we hacked on it and it's nice.
I think, yeah, I think I turned,
I heard someone say, oh, we need a funnel
in the zombies better.
And then I was, okay, I'll funnel them
and I literally made a funnel.
So I took that term literally.
And that turned out to be one of the best features, though.
Just have it, I'm all just gotta just hover it up
right in there, but they're charging us
unlike a drop where they fall, hit the ground,
then they have to get up, then assault you.
No, no, with a funnel, they just charge straight down it
and then toward you.
So there is no delay between when they,
you know, enter the base at your elevation,
then begin to assault you.
So all of that worked out for the best.
I think the only reason we,
one of the things we need to keep in mind,
one of the rules that I saw is we shouldn't modify
the POI's like that.
So it's okay to use them for the Horde night,
but how we basically turned that POI into our base
that we would want to be careful about.
Because I noticed that POI never spawned back.
I saw Admin on the server and I'm like, oh gosh,
they're checking out the base that we made.
That's the first thing I thought of
was that we were getting trouble,
but, or it's just that no one ever goes into that town
and requests, like quests.
They notice everyone requests the quest, oh my gosh.
They always do the quest from where we're at,
from Trader Rect, because I think that's,
is that where the newcomers spawn in right over there?
Yeah, roughly in that area.
Yeah.
That's why I'm gonna move away from it.
When the wipe happens, whatever map we're on,
I'm pretty sure I'm not gonna be where
the bulk of people are like that again,
just because of my, everything that we explained before.
I think it's funny how everyone got so passionate
about that base for, it just start off as like,
hey, you can't place the land claimed block
so don't waste too much materials on it
because it might disappear any moment.
And then here comes people bringing their whole stack
of concrete, Ratti was bringing,
polished steel, like they, and it's,
I think that this means that they really liked it.
So we learned a lot and we know now,
like we'll have our nice little death trap
for everyone to walk into.
And I think what we could do as well,
just as a way of making sure, well,
I'll talk to you about that off the show.
I don't wanna bore everyone with a lot of these,
you know, inside baseball terms and things surrounding the game.
If you haven't played Seven Ace of Die, give it a shot.
It normally goes on sale during all of the steam sales.
So right now we're in the steam autumn sale.
We're gonna be coming up on the steam winter sale.
I think it starts like early December or mid-December
all the way through to early January.
Steam winter sale is the best one.
I'm pretty sure you can pick the game up for cheap.
You won't regret it.
I will also mention that the game is poorly optimized.
The developers are supposed to be working on that,
but I'll spare my personal feelings toward them.
Nonetheless, the game is pretty fun.
If you have a friend you can play with
or if you wanna play online with a server,
so if you manage to find a noodle out there,
you can play with them and have a lot of fun.
Would you recommend the game noodle?
I would.
I wish my friends played it,
but they look at it and they're like, nah, pants,
but that's okay.
I met a lot of people on it I can have fun with.
Now, for that bonus topic,
the one that everybody needs to know about,
how do you make friends on the internet?
You know, one thing I've noticed about that's different
is no one uses voice chat.
So I feel like it's,
I wonder how much that changes the ability
to interact with people besides, you know,
the, without chatting.
Oh my gosh.
I'm wondering how much that affects social interaction
in the game and I don't know.
I think I kind of like not having the voice chat,
but in some ways it's a,
there's a lot of pros and cons,
but I think it allows people to be who they are
and they don't have to worry about talking to people.
So I think it's a bit more genuine in some ways,
but I don't know.
I never really thought about.
I guess, you know, I think what I do is I try to,
I try to find people who have similar play styles to me.
And when I find someone that does,
I think that's kind of,
I tend to ask them, you know, to go on more quests
or just kind of hop along, join along with what I'm doing.
But I think I notice with you,
I don't remember, I try to think back of how we,
so we met when DAC showed us the community
and then I remember I was in the town
and you were just like, you're behind me.
I think we were both looting that town
and we just happened to like being the same spot.
And I was like, oh yeah,
I was trying to go find the quest complete
and then we just kind of both tried,
we both tried doing the quest,
but then it turned out that I couldn't do the quest
because someone else was in there.
And I think it just kind of like,
hey, you want to go do a different one?
And we're like, sure.
And that's, sometimes just as simple as that.
Like just, some things didn't work out
because I wonder what would have happened
if it didn't work out that way.
That specific moment is what brought us to this.
I'm not sure if that's as easy as that
or if there's much science behind it,
but yeah.
Now, one of the things you mentioned earlier
about there isn't voice chat
and we have to do a lot of our communication through text.
You could pretty much look at me, my character,
my play style, my builds,
everything that I'm doing to figure classic guy,
right?
It's not gonna be that difficult to tell down the guy,
but then when I look at say, you, your name is Noodle.
That's not a, that's a gender neutral name, Noodle.
And can you tell us how to spell that
because it's spelled differently, isn't it?
Yeah, it's N-U-U-D-L-E instead of two O's.
And I get a lot of people who mispronounce
and they say Noodle.
And it's like, how do you think it's,
I mean, I guess I can see it,
but it's interesting how people don't instinctively think
of Noodle, they think of Noodle sometimes.
But yeah, I just wanted to add a little flair to it
and put the double U instead of O.
And that's pretty cool.
Have you had any sort of positive
or negative interactions around that area?
Oh, yes, it's horrible.
Being a girl out here playing games sometimes,
especially, and like, I think the worst was when I played
for us.
Like I remember I talked once,
and it's like, oh my gosh,
you sound like a guy.
It's like, oh, but it's a girl.
And they would just troll me
and I would either get some people
that were just trying to make my life miserable
or there'd be some people who were just simple for me,
I guess, like, give me everything and anything
just so I could play with them.
But it's definitely a lot of creeps.
But it is rare to find someone who's like a girl playing a game
and they wish I want to, I mean, sometimes I try
to omit the fact that I'm a girl.
I mean, I don't have to say, especially in servers like this,
where you don't have to talk or whatever,
but I think that's when I had the most fun
was knowing that, like, okay, I'm not going to get a creep,
messaging me or I'm not going to get, like,
bullied because of it.
But yeah, it's been, it's interesting how...
That's enlightening for a lot of guys,
because a lot of guys need to think about it.
Think about the dynamics that you just pointed out there.
Either I am going to be harassed by guys
who are trying to gain my favor,
like we're just going to all of a sudden start dating
because you learned that I'm a female
or I'm going to get bullied, right?
You're going to start picking on me,
making fun of me, probably doing something destructive
to my builds or something, just because you learned it,
I'm a girl over a guy or whatever, right?
Most guys never even encounter anything like that.
Yeah, I think it's definitely...
I mean, I think it's a lot better now.
I know it's just especially when you play on PC
or you're not having to deal on Xbox or whatever,
but I will say on PCN or not as toxic
as it would be to play on console.
But I will say that I think playing on PC,
there's a lot more mature people that play on
but it's on Xboxers.
Well, which is not a very good, I shouldn't really say that,
but that's my experience.
And that's quite all right.
Your experience is what matters.
That's why we want to know.
So making friends, it can come down to just something
as simple as just, you know,
hey, I want to do a thing and I can't right now.
You want to go with me over there, right?
You know, something as simple as that
or no real formula is involved in it other than,
I'm probably not going to talk
because then they'll know I'm a female
and that'll create changes.
I'm not really interested in dealing with today.
Yeah, and it's kind of sad because I think a lot of people,
a lot of girls are interested in general
or just they want to play games
but that's like one thing they have to worry about is,
you know, how are these people doing it?
And I think a lot of them are just used to it.
I mean, I'm kind of used to it, but you have to,
there's, you have to kind of,
we're trying to find ways to mitigate that.
That harassment, which kind of,
which I don't think people should have to deal with,
unfortunately, that's just how it is out here sometimes.
But now you should, no one should have to deal with that.
And it, and one of the things that helps
having guys around that let other guys know, knock it off.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, luckily I haven't really,
I haven't run into that at all, playing stuff they said.
I'm like, unlike me, I get hit on so much by the way.
It is my goodness, man, I can't keep them away from me.
Now I'm joking.
We are, most of the time, I don't have any issues at all.
So it's been pretty easy going
and to hear about these other experiences,
it's very interesting to learn that such contrast.
Yeah, I've, I've also wondered like on this server
where no one plays chat, I wonder like,
which do you prefer that way or do you wish to?
I prefer it that way because I practice a certain level
of etiquette, even when you and I are on a call,
a lot of times I use push to talk.
Mm-hmm.
And that's, that is something that,
from back in the day, that's something we've always used,
push to talk is, you being considerate of others.
Your background may be complex
and you don't need all of that pouring through the mic.
Now, we also do things like wear headphones
because you don't want feedback of your audio
going directly into your microphone.
So that, and that's even worse if you're on a laptop,
you know, where you're actually pressing the keys
that are next to your microphone.
So it's, it's a lot of things that we're,
that we take into consideration.
And I don't think that gamers today,
a lot of the young ones care.
They'll have music blaring and will just,
just be terrible.
And I don't want to deal with all that.
So I think no mic is great.
And for those like, say with you,
I don't mind hopping into a call with you,
having a chat.
And then we can just go back to texting or whatever, you know?
Yeah, I think it's, I think I,
at first I was like, kind of turned off by how,
because I'm a horrible typer, okay?
I, I call it the chicken peg,
where I just take my two pointer fingers,
I just peg away at the keyboard and I'm not,
I look at what I send and I'm like, oh my gosh.
I don't, I need to like, spell chat before I send,
but that's the only complaint that I have
so I just wish I was better at typing
so I could, sometimes people ask me a question
and sometimes you're in a dire situation like,
hey, do you need meds and I'm typing away?
But I'm getting better at it.
So you could, you put in more effort that I possibly,
I let the spelling errors and everything fly.
I do not care.
Yeah, you can look at my words and tell it,
I can't spell with it down, but it will hit the board, okay?
I will hit enter on all of it.
I think I've noticed that I'm like the one
that doesn't the most is just,
or I'll spell something wrong.
And I'm like, oh, I don't want anything, I'm stupid.
So I'll like, I'll spelling, so.
That's how we know your,
that's how we know your female right there.
Like, oh my goodness, she can spell.
She actually cares?
Oh, this must really be a woman, right?
For a guy, forget about it.
Who cares if I can't spell though?
Yeah, playing this game as a first I was trying to make
think might've really pretty
and then you get to the bottom portion of it.
It looks like you can just tell I gave up.
I don't care anymore.
This isn't how the game's supposed to be played.
Not everything can be.
Well, there are some really nice bases.
Remember that cafe?
Oh yeah, I like that one.
That cafe is so wonderful.
And my base is beautiful as well.
Like, I have the best grass on the entire server.
I know, I was so confused.
Hey, you want to see my base or your grass or something?
I follow, you know, I was like, okay.
And what do you know?
It really was just a grass, just that's it.
And then didn't even see the hatch that went down below.
But that was funny.
Got one of those sleeper bases.
Yeah.
So noodle, after having participated
in your very first show on hacker public radio,
would you be interested in one day doing it again
if there's every time?
I think so.
I think now that I've, you know, got my jiggers.
I'm still a little nervous, but after just,
I kind of forgot that we're doing a podcast.
I just seem like a conversation.
But I definitely do it again.
Very good.
Well, we've been going at it for a little while here.
And I'm going to go ahead and close out on it.
Thank you for coming by and sharing all the insight
with this noodle.
We love to have you back.
I won't pastor you too much about it,
but I may bring up doing the show again in the future.
I hope you won't hold it against me.
Oh, no, I'll be glad to do it.
That's all we have time for today, folks.
And hopefully we'll catch you guys in the next episode of Hacker.
Public radio.
OK.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
That Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener
who might yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided
by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show
is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
