Episode: 4257
Title: HPR4257: Movie review: The Artifice Girl
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4257/hpr4257.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:09:01

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4257 for Tuesday the 26th of November 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Movie Review the Artifist Girl.
It is hosted by Kebi and is about 15 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is.
In response to Hacker Public Radio 4223, Kebi shares his thoughts on the movie.
Hello, hello, this is Kebi from the Tux Jam Podcast and welcome to another episode of
HPR.
Now, this is my very first ever response episode, although I'm pretty sure it is a true
response.
In HPR 4223, some guy on the internet reviewed the film, the Artifist Girl and I listened
to that episode and never actually had heard of the film before and I thought it did
kind of intrigue me just purely because, hey, the majority of people on here am a tech
guy and I thought this could be something I would watch and immediately when he started
talking about it, I thought this is not something that the rest of my family would really,
well, my wife may enjoy it but I don't think she'd like the tech side of it, she's more
into the crime side of it and just because of the pure nature, I wasn't really that comfortable
watching as a family film either.
So I will say this at this point, this is not going to be a spoiler free review.
So if you actually want to go and listen to this, watch it for yourself.
This is the Artifist Girl and it seems to be, if you look at the date on it's made in
2022, I think it was released in 2023.
So if you actually want to go watch it just now, then please stop listening because this
is going to contain spoilers, I'm just going to review the whole movie.
Now the movie is essentially split into three sections, it's certainly, it is low budget,
I mean, he went on action with how low budget it was, it'd be fair, actually I've seen
much worse low budget films other than this from quality wise.
So actually it's okay, you can see that there's not an awful lot being made and they certainly
don't expect any spatial effects.
But to be honest, I thought they did actually quite a good job with what they had.
So the scene is set where it just looks like a kind of police interview, more or less.
And this guy, Gareth, has been questioned about his online identity.
And he's initially been questioned as if he's a pedophile.
And the two are quite ruthless, but there's two in it, there's Dina and there's Amos.
And Dina in particular, she's a real roadviler.
And then they're interviewing and he actually admits his online user name, Alias.
And then very, very quickly, he's keeping on saying it's not what you think.
And of course, these two are saying, yeah, yeah, this is, that's what they all say.
But then he admits that he's actually developed this AI girl called Cheri.
Now initially they think it's actually a girl and they want to find out and rescuer.
And then he points out that no, but he'll only talk on the thing of full, I don't know,
midi and what's the word I'm looking for.
I'm not good with legal terms, you know, when the discussion goes no further,
there's going to be immunity, immunity, let's go immunity.
I think that's the right term, but I'm not sure on that.
But anyway, he says that he'll only talk and there's a bit of a back and forward.
And then eventually he shows, because they don't believe in, first of all,
that this is an AI girl.
But rather they think it's a real girl that he's holding kind of hostage.
They kind of know that he's an informant who's putting pedophiles behind bars or attempting
to anyway.
And they talk about his convictions, but they say that this does not mean that you can
have that the expense of a child.
And then eventually he loads it up and he shows that this is not a child and you can speak
to her, it's not a real child, it's AI, it's all artificial intelligence, it's been programmed.
So it goes through that.
To be honest, I actually thought the first act, if you want to call it that, the first
section was overdone, because that took 40 minutes of a one hour, 30 minute film.
So I just felt after that thought, yeah, it was okay, but they could have done it a
little shorter.
That was kind of my feeling.
I think that maybe condensing that section down to 25, 1 minutes would have been ample
rather than dragging down for 40.
So then it goes, at the end, he signs their agreement to actually work with them.
He won't release a source code, but he's willing to work with them and they're going
to develop and then you see it spin like next scene and you see it spinning to a number
of years in the future.
And you're not told how much, but you can see that visibly older and I mean, by this
point, Dina is walking with a stick, Amos is considerably grear, inherent, is beard.
And Gareth, when he first joins a scene in act one, he's very much just like kind of,
he looks like he's been pulled out of a student dorm, to be honest.
That's my kind of view of him.
But when you see him again, he's kind of much tidier, he's in a suit, and he looks
a bit older.
It's obviously the same actor, so.
And by this point, they're absolutely reging that they didn't kind of get to go ahead
grand or something for, to further develop cherry, and they wanted to develop her from
instead of just being an AI who appears on screen into an Android style body, so a physical
body.
And then it reveals that they didn't get the grant, because Amos himself had actually
voted against doing this, because he was afraid, he was afraid of what this was, because
he was saying, cherries are girl, and they had the other two would argue, no cherries
not a girl, which is an artificial intelligence, she's a computer program.
But then they said, well, let's ask her, and they ask her, and of course you can see
where this is going, it develops into, yes, actually, I do have feelings.
She knows she starts with, no, no, I'm a program, I'm a program, I'm a program, and
then they start place, Amos himself starts placing her, and then he starts actually
leaning to Gareth, and physically leaning to me, he's punching him.
And then she starts shouting, stop, stop, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, okay, this wasn't
for, this wasn't for public years, but stop hurting him.
This is, yes, I have developed feelings, I have developed personal thoughts, and then
she says, no, actually, it scares me, this is not something that I don't think I actually
want to go on with, and then kind of, Amos kind of leaves the scene by saying, told
you so, and then it comes into the third scene and by that point, I think it's actually
Dean at that stage, you don't see it, the reason I'm saying I think is because you don't
actually see it, you just see Gareth is in a wheelchair, and he's in, I got a church,
and it's pretty empty, and the person who's like the, that with the minister, or somebody
from the congregation, you only see, you don't ever hear them speak, they just walk up
and they hand Gareth an urn, doesn't say who it is, I believe, I say, unless I'm
misted, it's Dean as funeral, and he's the only one there, she hands this we urn, and
then he goes to this house, and there's a girl there, and you can tell it's theatre
weeks, Cheri, and she's kind of attached to, she's attached to like the, kind of the
box on the ceiling by a wire, that was to be honest, the only bit that looked kind of
pretty naff in my opinion, but it wasn't terribly done, it just, it did look a wee bit on
the nafferside, and then she's still the same age, she's still like a 12-year-old or
nine-year-old, I think Section 9 was supposed to be, nine-year-old girl, and he goes in and
he hands her the urn, and she's in this house, and she's asking Gareth, who's an old man
by this point in the wheelchair, and it's actually played by a totally different actor
at this point, and he's saying, she's saying, do you have somewhere to go, and they start
playing chess together, and then he, they start having this really serious discussion,
I mean, she's still doing her, her objective, her objective is still the same, but she's
now saying she wants to try things, she wants to experience things, things that aren't for
her brief, and then of course she's almost, it gets quite emotional, because Gareth is
saying this is what you're designed for, and she's saying yes, but I'm a girl now, I'm
gone beyond what you made me, and it all gets very angry, and then they start shouting, and then
it's a case of he hands her a key, and she says, do you have my thrust issues, and he down,
he gets her the downloaded onto himself, and onto herself, sorry, and then the, she says,
oh, my brief has been removed, I'm a normal, it had the Pinocchio style, I'm not a puppet,
I'm a real little boy, you know, does that kind of style, it did make me chuckle at the end,
and you know, kind of that was it, because the next scene you see in his three years on a shelf,
and you see her dancing about, and it, I mean, it was one of those, I couldn't fathom out,
which weight was, I mean, if it was, if it's a film you want to provoke you to think,
then it does that, because you're, you're thinking, he's, they do have a conversation where,
you know, are you happy, and turns out she's never happy, though, cherry is never happy as such,
and she's going to outlive all of them, because she's programmed into this android body of a nine-year-old
girl, who's never going to age, you know, and I think I was kind of point that she's on her own
at the end, and the, the ones who develop her are all dead, she's got them on the urn and a shelf,
and it, it's very much getting you that, as far as entertainment goes, yeah, I watched it,
would I watch it again, absolutely not, it, I have, it does no in my, my rewatchability,
why do I say that, because film's programs, to me, are always about the enjoyment, you know,
how much did I enjoy it, because at the end of the day, I don't exactly have an awful lot of time,
and I've just spent an hour and a half watching this, and I was thinking,
would I watch, did I regret watching, was it terrible, was a pirate trash, no, definitely was not,
but would I watch it again, absolutely not, purely because, like I said, the enjoyment wasn't there
for me, I watched it, there was some ideas of interest, in the same way, you know, you read up
something as purely on research, it doesn't mean that it was waste of time, just it's not something
you enjoyed, so the, if you're a deep thinker, then this is definitely something that I would
recommend you watch, if you are more wanting it for entertainment, I'd say go and watch something
else, because that's my honest answer, it's not something that you're going to enjoy, it's not
something that's going to leave you thinking, wow, oh well, the AI and that is phenomenal,
because it was kind of on low budget, and you can tell that, there's only like four scenes in
the entire film, and one of them is just a very brief view of a church, so you can really see
there's only three scenes, so yeah, like I said, those are my thoughts, I think it's one of those
ones that it would actually cause a lot of debate, I can understand why, a guy on the internet,
why he, his lug, I think it was, he said, I can't remember, but I can't, I can't,
imagine why they chose it, and it's something, certainly so, I think that would involve discussion,
I mean, he spoke an awful lot about, on his one about how he would have done it, how things,
he would have changed things, he would have liked, have seen, I'm actually not going to go down that
route at all, because then the day's not my film, and I'm just not one for, well, if I could have
done it this way, I would have done it this way, because at the end of the day, nobody's
knocking on my door to be a film writer or a film producer or anything like that, so I'm going to
leave that to the professionals. Yeah, so that was just my two-peneth, so yeah, if you actually
haven't seen the film, I do recommend actually going to watch it, just not for a family film night,
certainly, but it's of interest, yes, is it entertainment, possibly not, so, you know, I wouldn't
go sitting down in front of it with a beer on the popcorn, it's just not that type of film,
just approach this as if you're kind of almost reading, but the research, it's research that kind of
way, so I want to kind of get you thinking, and yeah, it's one thing I did make me laugh just
for we signed off, was at the end, I love Futurama, is it's one of my favourite animations,
and I still go back and watch it, and there was a bit at the end when I was thinking, you've got this
huge, they've got this huge house, this girl in this huge house, or this android in this huge house,
with all the comforts of home there, there was a huge kitchen, there was a great big dining room,
and she had books and stuff, and there was all these things, it was a very normal house, very nice
normal house, and I'm thinking to myself, why would an android need that, genuinely, why?
I mean, it got me thinking of when Frye went to Benj apart from the first time, and he's saying,
well, 66% of this is just wasted space, and it's literally just a cupboard, and that made me think of
why actually would an android require all these paper books, you know, nicest they look,
you're not gonna need that, I mean, you've got the whole you connected to the internet,
your whole thing is about learning, you're gonna get all that stuff probably from digital means,
from researching on the internet, you know, it's just a daft we caveat that it can
struck me at the end thinking, surely if this was, if it was an android, this would more or less
live practically in a tiny box, maybe not as small as Benj apart and without the cupboard, but
why would you need all that space? So anyway, just a thought process, right, so if you did, let the
HDR community know what you think of it if you did, and did go and watch this, yeah, so
until not the usual type of each part episode for me, but still, hopefully it's of interest,
so until the next time, bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, at Hacker Public Radio does work,
today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our
things.net. On this otherwise status, today's show is released on our creative comments,
attribution 4.0 International License.
