Episode: 4335
Title: HPR4335: Responce to Antoin's H P R 4 3 1 3 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4335/hpr4335.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 23:13:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,335 for Friday 14 March 2025.
Today's show is entitled, Response to Antoin's HPR4-313.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 9 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Response to Antoin's HPR4-313 converted to English audio.
Department of Epidemic Prevention and Water Supply, PSCLA, in 1937 what became known as Unit
731 was established originally was simply called the Department of Epidemic Prevention
and Water Supply.
Until the end of the war in this and other similar complexes, Japan delved into research
and military development in ways that in any era would be considered inhuman.
The Eastern Country Station and invaded China developed biological weapons there, before
inoculating them in rats and releasing them into the air they tested them on humans
in prison there.
In this podcast in a single episode we hear a personal account based on real historical
facts from an unusual prisoner, the prisoner Unit 731, a mere personal account from the
only person who left their testimony of this place a Japanese unit established in invaded
China for human research, to learn more just listen.
Audidrome History, for diff persons to hear and noted the insertions are excerpts from
the episode that will air, with lines from the main character as in the same voice that
does this trailer.
The Second World War was the war that nobody expected would happen, but who really expects
a war anyway.
Insertion since the beginning man has lived in war, it's in desire for power, desire
for money, it's never a good motivation, but purely selfishness.
And one of the first conflicts that marked this moment in history was the Second Sino-Japanese
War that is the war between Japan and China.
Insertion when Japan invaded China we didn't expect such brutality, I didn't expect to
experience this in my lifetime, but he is experiencing it, what is he referring to?
Well one of the most horrific buildings through which Japanese occupied China was called
the Shiroishi Unit in corner of its leader, a doctor in general, another thing I did
in a 7-3-1.
A unit of insertion experiments on logs degrading biological tests on human guinea pigs.
We don't want to say there was a scientific purpose insertion, there was no scientific
purpose of water treatment, but this was an appropriate disguise to ideologically hide
the construction that was already physically well hidden, isolated even.
If there had been any survivor, what would they tell?
Who would after it?
We created Parkinson's trouble.
Insertion he was recruited by Dr. Shiroishi for the experiments.
Coming less, learn the story, love the story, a single, the account of the prisoner who
survived.
This account was found in the records of Parkinson's
trouble, a Russian polish origin.
He was recruited by Dr. Shiroishi for experiments in unit 7-3-1, a legitimate opportunity to stay
alive, which turned out to be false for reasons he didn't expect.
What we're going to hear now is his writing, undead, except that for organizational purposes
will name the three parts that composed his follows one.
Introduction, accomplishments, the bark, the author moves back and forth in his organization,
but ultimately what he brings is.
You get it?
Thank God we know that from the beginning man has lived in war.
It's envy desire for power, desire for money, it's never a good motivation, but purely
selfishness.
We've arrived at the department a week ago, and although without desire to collaborate
with what happens here, I know I already know enough that it's not possible to leave
here free.
When the Japanese invaded this region, Venturia, and the long war against China, we didn't
expect the brutality that was seen.
A few years ago, after the end of the Great War, several countries signed the Geneva
Protocol, although it only prohibits the use of chemical weapons, biological agents,
as fixating agents and related specifics we believed to meant more, that it would mean
more a general humanization of combat methods on land, sea, and air when, perhaps there was
another Great War.
I didn't expect it to come in my lifetime, nor to be captured or participate in it
first-hand.
As I was saying, I've only been sleeping here for a week, but the days are full of activities,
the experiments on the logs humans.
Yesterday was the worst day, because despite being the most popular torture among scientists
and much talked about, I feared every second of having to someday see this.
I saw it one of the Operation Commanders in the section placed me with a lieutenant
responsible for scouting first.
The two prisoners' logs were mobilized tied to grates in the cold exterior without protection.
Others did it, I just watched.
They were far from each other, enough that they couldn't talk or see each other.
We then accelerated the freezing process in some parts of their bodies.
On the adult log, we poured water on his hands using a small bucket, and after they petrified
on his arms.
The child log, who was Chinese, possibly the son of combatants from what I understood,
was intermittently submerged from the waist down.
After what must have been an hour, we took them inside, still separated, to finalize the
observations, meticulously noted by the officer's assistance for scientific purposes.
We immersed the frozen or partially frozen limbs in tanks of water at 40 degrees Celsius,
for very times that I don't remember, to verify the body's response and reviving the
parts we had numbed.
The blood returned to circulate in the small log, the fantastic recovery of youth, but
the effects on mobility and pain seemed irreparable nonetheless.
Many adult, without any success, was left for future notes on the conditions and time
it will take until the creases of the limbs.
I thought I would suffer more with this sight, the first time I was such a direct part
of evil.
I believe they took more experienced logs, who knew that it was no use screaming begging
pleading, so they suffered my ills and apparent peace, which spared me from greater trauma.
Padofa Vodea.
I could list more of what they do here, but it's all being very well recorded by those
who have lived and breathed this air for longer, and with much more competence.
Therefore, eventual reader to whom these sheets may eventually reach, I'll move on to
my final words about what I can understand from what I was given to live.
Many of my friends and family know that I love them, and that I never wish them harm.
And the content of all this here, as I say, is officially recorded in official papers full
knowledge of all wins.
Someday, they come to be opened or discovered, so I limit myself in my words.
When Japan captured me as another poor civilian, I imagine a brief friend.
When they made me understand that they would take me to the Department of Water Distribution,
Prevention of Endemics, with the famous military and Dr. Shiro Ishii, I thought of myself
a future forced laborer, chosen for my career in sanitary inspection in China.
Now that's proved true, I was selected by chance and attracted victim, who by leaving
home without looking to size was easy prey for the extermination of these murders.
They had no idea who I was and still don't care to know.
They are satisfied to have a foreign guinea pig of non-Chinese ethnicity to give a different
color to this prison.
Curse to that's what they provoke, that's what they deserve.
Knowing that from the beginning there are wars, and war between brothers, gratuitous death
and cries of pain is comforting, a little one we know that there is an omniscient being
who speaks of truth, and not only prepares us for everything that is to come, but personally
for each one of us.
It's true.
The missionaries who told me about him blessed be they, and may they have been far away
from this region for many years.
Sorry, let me go back today is the 8th day, and I don't want to live knowing that I can
get used to this lifestyle.
We have no connection with the progress of science for water purification, something that
general issue actually developed.
I give him credit.
His lectures at the unit refer the method as a mission given by God, but also mainly
to the main reason for some of the tests on the logs to create biological weapons with
bubonic plague, anthrax and others to weaken and annihilate tens of thousands of enemies.
From what he said, we are being successful, both in research and in development effective
launch of weapons in combat and bombings.
I make a point of thinking it's political discourse, and that there hasn't been enough
time yet to make something so effective to the point of starting near epidemics through
the air.
Still, the military's countenance is one of pure madness, being alone with him in a room
would be equivalent to worse than death.
Those who are inoculated with pathological agents and open while still live for scientists
to search for the action of the disease in the organs would confirm my impression.
Ferb, when I arrived at this place that looks more like a prison, I thought it would be
my end, to die incarcerated.
I was never a man of much hope, which is why I was incredibly surprised by the absurd
story the missionaries told.
Prison would have been easier than being a killer.
I am a killer part of all this, and I don't want to be anymore.
They wouldn't let me out, not now.
Nor is there anywhere go we are isolated, but I will leave tomorrow.
If I can disguise myself as a dead body, naked among the discarded fallen logs until my
friend's truck, he can take me to a place near the disposal valley from where a few
more kilometers walking in the snow will take me to a still-free border.
Otherwise, if before that I am unmasked, I will have a brief end in which God willing,
I won't no longer be hurting anyone else.
In exchange, in the conversation, I told my friend about my pages, and he was very interested
in what they might contain.
After all, personal sayings are like gold when all that is talked about as atrocities
and all that is lived as death.
It was a bargain he gives me freedom, and I give him these sheets.
I tell where I hid them when you leave me near the disposal valley in their years.
I hope they are worth it for your mind, my victorious friend.
May the angels care for and protect you.
I may be left on the way last week in stake.
If I don't find freedom, make sure all my acquaintances know that I love them, and that
I never wanted their harm only their good.
The information contained in the account is true, with the main references listed in the
description.
The person in Parkinson's trouble is fictional, without any inflection in reality, his speech
and person being a creation made to be our ticket of entry into this true story.
The department in which we placed Parkinson's Unit 731, which was first officially designated
as the epidemic prevention and water supply department of the Quanting Army.
At least 3,000 victims of the experiments died in Unit 731 with no survivors from
a 937 until the end of the teen grade war on September to 1945, an estimated 200-300-1000
deaths resulted from the use of biological weapons developed in at 730-nothers.
A final paragraph from Treble was found in different handwriting in the margins of the
filled sheets.
It is not nowhere it should have been framed in the account, but for transparency we simply
bring it as it is.
Therefore my appeal, or rather, without being dramatic, my simple observation to my
character, which I want to share from my heart with you who red-know, that what is seen
can never be unseen.
What passes through our senses for one second and enters our mind will remain in it forever.
Please make the best use of this information.
Sound credits use in the form author's sounder sounds in order of appearance.
Kulakoka picks away lost in dreams, abstract chill, daniposomatic future beats.
BBC sound effects airfbue fighters take off.
A bristlebue fighter, world-world, army parade ground, manovers, platoon strolls, single
file on parade ground, whether snow blizzard, herd inside house with banging shutters, footsteps
and snow, foots and snow, three men departing, water-filling metal bucket from pond and pouring
water onto concrete.
Flare Rachel to freeze-down quick-wish.
Tell him a slab for freeze-down vertical noise Chinese folk do decay.
Naila is a freeze-down mystic Chinese guzzling.
BBC sound effects again, World War II enemy artillery, world-world war, electuality,
1970s and refair craft bue fighters of steep-climed, bristlebue fighter, world war, jane far
on 97 of freeze-down game, look thousands of you freeze-down turning old pages.
BBC sound effects, sirens, gunfire, world war, air raid, sirens, german all clear sounded.
Govinsa picks away a spinning head, ruffin, joshu, a history of Japan's 731 implications
for modern biological warfare, advances in social science, education in humanities, research,
lantis press, pitch paper about units 7, reading and provides the synthesis of the real
panorama of what happened to us between 1937 and 1945.
The living weapon, Shiroishi, link caps to what did a HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP
experience of features weapon biography, Shiroishi, excess dweida art, Japan's biological
and chemical weapons programs, war crimes and atrocities, who's who, what's what, where's
where, in front of this version, a catalog of Japanese war crimes containing designations
of people, places and substances.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-hop-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP-HIP
You
