Episode: 4147
Title: HPR4147: Review of the Moto G 5G 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4147/hpr4147.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:15:24

---

Spizz is hacker public radio episode 4147 for Tuesday the 25th of June 2024.
Today's show is entitled Review of the Moto G8 2020.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and is about 14 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is I talk about the phone, what I like and what I don't like about it.
Hello my good people, this is Swift 110.
And tonight I thought I would go ahead and do a review of the Moto G5G from 2024.
I picked up this phone just a few months ago as I was moving.
Because what happened was that my surface duo from the device that I'm very, very fond of.
Well, it decided it was no longer charged up.
So what happened is I have it in the charger.
It would periodically cycle on, cycle off, go to 4%.
And even though it was on 4%, I had just enough time to send out a single text or check my text real quick.
And then we would go right back off.
Sometimes it wouldn't come on at all.
Can you imagine your phone stops working as you're moving out.
You're trying to make arrangements to get people to help move the rest of your stuff out.
It made a situation not already stressful way more stressful than it all was.
There's enough on that.
As a result, I went to a local T-Mobile store.
And I picked up a new Moto G5G in 2024.
I ultimately paid about $215 for it.
It's one of the lower.
It might have been a less expensive phone that they had available in the store at the time.
And at the time, I was debating between several phones.
Now, the other phone I was looking at completely forget which phone I was.
Considering getting maybe the OnePlus Nord would have been an option.
There also was the T-Mobile level.
That was available at the store in person.
And I just, I was just thinking in terms of my storage, paying for storage, paying for my truck.
The adventure that comes along with moving in case you haven't figured out how to move it.
So, yeah, I hate it.
But yeah, I'll try not to go too much into that.
But here, I just wasn't trying to spend a lot of money.
And what ended up happening, I got the phone.
Well, what are the specs of this particular phone?
Well, it's 128GB of internal storage.
It's unlocked, having a T-Mobile.
I'm pretty happy with my service.
I will say that it took some getting used to going back to a traditional candy store phone
after using a foldable phone for better for a year.
Because I had to check this Duo and I got that in May.
I want to believe it was kind of later to me on a trip to Maine and gave me this device.
And I have also got this Surface Duo.
And thankfully, that story, yeah, I'll tell that story at another time.
But for now, I digress and get back to the LG.
I did have an LG phone before.
It's motor over the device.
The 5G has a 120Hz refresh screen.
Multi-dimensional sound of Dolby, at most.
Two large stereo speakers that have crisp sound.
That's one thing I'll say about this phone.
Very good sound.
Even if you're not using anything to amplify it, it's great when it comes to sound.
My phone calls are crisp and clear.
I had no problem with that.
I've used it with different Bluetooth devices.
All that is good.
It's got a 50-megapixel camera system.
I don't think the camera is all that great.
But it is.
It is.
That quiet pixel technology.
I guess it's supposed to.
You got a macro vision.
I don't use all this stuff.
And I really do care less.
You got an 8-megapixel front camera for those social media-ready selfies.
Or do we love our social media selfies?
Oh, it's rocking that Snapdragon 4 generation.
What?
Wow.
5G.
It does really good with speeds on the phone.
That's good.
And it comes along with four gates of memory.
Now there's something unique about this phone that I've never seen before.
It says that your phone automatically adapts and adds four gates of virtual RAM.
It's mandible up to eight gates with this thing called RAM boost in the USB.
So by default, we're dealing with four gates of RAM.
And I'm going to actually go to the actual tables and ensure that right now I am using the most RAM.
That it's set to eight.
So that's one of the things about this phone.
I like the fact that you can make that adjustment.
I just wish it was all ready.
It's both RAM one here.
What I do like about this phone is already on Android version 14.
And apparently this will only go up one version.
So I might get Android 15 on here at some point.
And that's going to be all that's available.
It currently has my original SIM card in here.
And it also is capable of eSIM.
Whatever it is, it that means.
Don't ask because I can't tell you.
Now I am looking for personalized.
I'm trying to actually remember how.
I did that adjustment.
Because at the moment, I don't know.
You got help.
I'm in the setting section of system.
Now go to the system.
Let's say I have to do this.
If you do manage to get the Motorola G5G24.
The Motorola G5G24, you get this phone.
Here's what you do.
Go to your settings.
And you go all the way.
Go to the bottom.
And go under system.
Go down to the bottom where it says performance.
And there you can enable smart app launch.
And you also see the option for RAM boots 1.
Now there it tells you device memory.
RAM boots 4 gates.
You can set the extended memory size to 4.
That's what they're talking about when it comes to that expandable RAM.
That's how you get to that particular section.
What I like about this phone.
It has a really good battery life.
It supports turbo power charging.
And that's good.
I'm not used to having phones that do that.
One of the things that I really like about Motorola phones
is that they tend to be water repellent, water resistant,
if you ever want to call it.
And I really like that.
I like the way the back of the phone has this legion leather back on it.
That really comes in handy because it gives a texture to the phone
and makes it less slippery when you're holding it.
You know, so many people, I come across, you know,
you come across some of the basses, their phones are damaged.
And my phone has a few session scratches on the front, but that's about it.
I didn't give me a case for it.
And so ironically enough,
with the case is actually more slippery than it was before.
But at least it has more protection than it did before.
And we're actually in kind of doing what this particular phone is learning more
about how to get more out of it.
Well, let's talk about the processor that's available here.
The Snapdragon 4 Generation 1 mobile
is two gigahertz octocore, chiral CPU, or a Drio GP.
And, you know, fancy words to be frank,
they don't impress me much.
What does impress me, however, is that in addition to the 128 gates of internal storage,
is that you can add a micro SD card up to one terabyte.
Up storage is available on this device.
I think that nice.
It's 18...
Oh, when it comes to charging,
18 watt device charging cable.
That's pretty good.
The display is a 6.6 inch display with 120 refresh rate,
269 PTI.
What a repellent display, like I said,
it has a headset, it has an audio port,
and a Type-C port.
It weighs 194 grams.
And with gram of it.
So, yeah, overall,
despite it being a rather budget phone,
it's pretty dark on good.
I'm happy about that.
What's something that I would complain about when it comes to this phone?
Honestly, I would talk,
most of what I could say to you get what you pay for.
It charges really well.
And, if I were to say something bad about the phone,
I don't know what I could say about the phone,
but I don't particularly like it.
I just can't do that,
because for all intensive purposes,
I'm happy with it.
So, you can truly get a quality phone,
even without breaking the bank as it turns gold.
Eventually, I may get another cell phone.
Of course, I'll keep this one,
but I may get something else that gets a little more.
But, now, I'm pretty happy with it.
So, I appreciate you guys for listening to this particular review,
where I'm talking about Moto G5G24.
It's not saying that.
The Moto G5G2024 edition version of it.
Of this phone.
So, I recommend you get it.
Do your homework.
If you can get a phone with more RAM,
if that matters to you,
then please do so.
To get the most out of it,
you're going to want a Mac,
you're going to want a 18 watt turbo power charging speed
on the charger that you use for.
That power brick thing,
you're going to want a power brick that can support 18 watts.
So, if you do that,
that'll help you get the most out of your charging speed.
There's word on the street that says,
if you fast charge the phone too often,
there's a great battery quicker.
However, you feel about that,
it's entirely up to you.
In fact, I didn't pay much for this phone to begin with.
I'm okay with,
not a big deal.
It's really not a big deal.
So, hopefully now you feel a little more educated
about this particular device,
and when I do something else,
it'll be coming up in the future.
Now, also, I do want to do a review of the Surface D-Wire at some point,
and that'll be interesting as well.
Anyway, this has been Swift 110.
You guys have a same attention now.
Bye for now.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by
a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the Internet Archive, and our Sync.net.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
