Episode: 4504
Title: HPR4504: YouTube Subscriptions 2025 #7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4504/hpr4504.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 15:09:28

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4504 for Thursday the 6th of November 2025.
Today's show is entitled, YouTube Subscriptions 2025 Hash 7.
It is part of the series YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, part 7 of my list of Subscribed Chels.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah, welcome to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
This one is coming to you out of the Reserve Q.
What that means is that there have not been enough shows submitted.
This is a community project.
Hacker Public Radio relies on the community to provide the shows for the community.
At some point, if shows don't come in, we are just going to have to shut this project down.
I am assuming if you are listening to this, you don't want that to happen.
The best way to make sure it doesn't happen is to record a show.
That is what I am doing.
I am talking about right now some of the channels in YouTube that I subscribe to and why I subscribe to them.
You might hear something that you say, oh, that is interesting.
I like to check that out.
Please be advised that I always put into the show notes the URL so that you can find it easily.
You can also find it by just doing a search in YouTube with the name of the channel
and either way should work out just fine.
Without further ado, I am going to talk about Isaac Arthur's channel, Science and Futurism with Isaac Arthur or just Isaac Arthur.
Interesting fellow, he is a physicist and other things.
I think for two years now I have been president of the National Space Society and this channel is him doing videos about topics in the future.
It does some very interesting and imaginative kinds of things.
He will talk about megastructures that might be built in space.
What would a colonization look like without faster than life travel?
Are there aliens out there we should be worried about?
These are longer videos. I would say averaging 30 to 35 minutes a video and he does two of them a week.
But it is usually very interesting.
This is one of the channels that I subscribe to.
Then there is Jamie Sutton.
Jamie Sutton is someone who also talks about cruising and has a number of videos.
They are mostly older at this point. He may have stopped doing it.
But if you wanted to learn more about that, he had a series called The Cruise that went through several seasons.
There is a lot of material there if that is something that interests you.
The next channel is by a fellow named Jeff Peevar.
I first heard about Jeff Peevar because he was in a group with David Crosby.
The story is David Crosby found a son that I know if he didn't know he had or had lost touch with or whatever his son had become a musician.
The son's last name at this point was Raymond.
David Crosby did sperm donations at one point.
That may have had something to do with all of this.
Anyway, the group was Crosby, Peevar, and Raymond.
I like David Crosby so that was not a problem.
I realized that Jeff Peevar is pretty interesting.
On his channel, he will do from time to time, he'll do a little bit of a concert and put that out on his channel.
He's a really good guitar player.
I find that worthwhile to keep that on my list.
Then I'm going to go to Jenny Breeden.
Jenny Breeden is a cartoonist.
She has a daily cartoon you can find online. It's called The Devil's Panties.
Kind of a humorous and she talks about her life, basically.
As a cartoonist, she frequently goes to conventions to try and sell some of her wares.
So she'll talk about what that's like.
She's got young children and she'll talk about being a mom.
Stuff like that or what's her relations with her husband and what family life is like.
But she's got a very nice sense of humor that I appreciate.
And occasionally we'll put out a video.
So I'm subscribed to that channel.
Next is Joe Brennan.
Joe is another one of those people who does reviews and discussions of Dr. Who.
That's something that I'm very interested in and I enjoy his take on things.
So that is the Joe Brennan channel.
Next is a channel called Joe Scott.
Joe is a musician. He and his wife are both musicians.
In fact, they have a group called Acoustic Idol on. They're based in Colorado.
We've seen them perform, really enjoyed the performance, picked up a couple of CDs,
got on the mailing list and then discovered that they had this channel.
And so it's, you're not going to get a lot of videos here, they're infrequent.
But I enjoy them when they come out and that's good enough.
Next is Jonathan Brooke.
Jonathan, we first discovered Jonathan Brooke when she was part of a duo called The Story.
And they played at the Ann Arbor Folk Festival.
And we thought, oh, they're really good.
They did this wonderful song called Dog Dreams.
And it was basically life from the perspective of the dog.
And it was just really a great sense of humor and insight.
And we kind of fell in love with that.
And then the group split up.
And Jonathan has been doing a lot of stuff.
Of course, he's a touring musician.
She's also done a few musical plays that she's written.
So we keep in touch with what she's going on through her YouTube channel,
as well as her email mailing list.
Now the next one is a fellow named Josh Snares.
Josh is an Australian who is a Doctor Who fan and does reviews among other things.
Of Doctor Who lately, he's been looking a lot at the animations that have been done.
You may recall from some of the Doctor Who shows, if you listen to those that I've done,
that a lot of the early, basically the first six seasons of Doctor Who,
a lot of those episodes are missing because the BBC basically didn't care.
And just reuse the videotape or through it out or whatever,
because it's like, no one will ever want to see this.
So now that they've discovered that, in fact, yeah, people do want to see it.
And the original material isn't there anymore.
One of the things they've been doing is animating some of the missing episodes.
And he's been doing a lot of reviews about the animations.
So that's the Josh Snares channel.
Then there's Jumbo Pixel.
Jumbo Pixel is a game reviewer.
Now that includes civilization. He's big on civilization.
But he's just big on computer games and strategy games in general.
One of the things that he does periodically is he will do kind of a review of the games that are coming out.
Which games are people most looking forward to in 2025 was one that he just did.
Some of them have been announced. Others are sort of like, well, they're expected to come out in 2025.
You don't have a date yet.
And he will get involved with the early alphas and playtest these things and report on them.
Basically tell you, is this something you might want to get?
So it's a good channel. It's a fellow from New Zealand.
And I enjoy his work.
The next channel is called Kara and Nate.
Now, this is a travel channel in a way. It's their travels.
This is a young couple, you know, my age, everyone's a young couple.
But they're a young couple that when they got married, they decided to spend a year traveling before settling down.
But by the time the year was up, they didn't want to stop.
And so they have been to like over a hundred different countries.
They've been doing physical challenges.
So one of them was, they got together with some friends and did a bicycle trip from one side of the United States to the other.
Or running a marathon or, you know, whatever.
So there's been some physical challenges.
And otherwise just, you know, documenting their travels all around the world.
So another one I enjoy.
The next one is Kate Tectonics.
Play on words, the woman named Kate.
I'm talking about geology.
This one is one that I could probably take off of this because I don't think she's put anything out in seven years.
But as I said before, I just, I don't bother. It does no harm to leave it on the list.
Then there's Ken Michaels radio.
Ken Michaels is a radio distraki.
It does a syndicated show about the Beatles called every little thing.
Participates in several podcasts about the Beatles.
One of them is things we said today.
And so he's, you know, that's his thing is he's a Beatles guy.
I'm a big fan of the Beatles.
So I enjoy that.
Then there is Kevin Stratford.
This is a fellow who has a channel that is devoted to basically giving tutorials on different kinds of software.
You know, how to use it.
And at one point, I was thinking of trying to do some video stuff and, you know, he was talking about some of the software that I was thinking of using.
And that's how I ran across it.
And so I just subscribed to the channel just to see what's going on.
Most of the time he's talking about software.
I have no interest in it.
So in cases like that, I just delete the notification and get on with my life.
The next one is Kyle Jones.
Now, Kyle is another doctor who does not the only thing.
He's basically a geek in general.
Dr. Who star track comics.
You know, Marvel Universe, what have you.
But I follow the discussing who.
And we talked about that in an earlier program, the discussing who podcast.
He was also for a while on Dr. Who pod shock, which is sort of the original.
Dr. Who related podcast.
And he has his own channel.
And so that's what I'm subscribed to.
Then there's La Lido Loca.
That this is another one of the crews related channels that I listen to.
This one, he comes out with a daily program.
Generally going to be, you know, seven to ten minutes.
So, you know, it's crews news, commentary on what's going on in the crews scene.
Then there is Lake Street Dive.
Now Lake Street Dive is the name of a band.
And very good band.
I think you would call them kind of a bluesy rock sort of thing.
And I enjoy it.
So, you know, their channel, they will put out something, you know, once or twice a week.
And it might be very short.
But it's good promotion and publicity for them.
They will sometimes do a performance of one of the songs from their latest CD and stuff like that.
And another band is Larkin Po.
Now, this is two sisters.
And neither one of them is named Larkin or Po.
And I think it was like the, you know, names of their grandparents or something like that that they just put together.
Interesting duo, one plays guitar and the other plays dobro or slide guitar.
For instance, they were among the people who guessed it on Ringo Starr's latest country album.
So, they do.
I wouldn't call it country exactly.
You know, the slide guitar does tend to, you know, the dobro is definitely considered a country instrument.
But I would say they're more rock.
Anyway, that's Larkin Po.
And I think that's enough for this.
So, this is Hookah for Hacker Public Radio signing off and is always encouraging you to support free software.
Bye-bye.
Today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
