Episode: 4072
Title: HPR4072: Piper text to speech engine
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4072/hpr4072.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:16:44

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4,072 for Tuesday the 12th of March 2024.
Today's show is entitled Piper Text to Speech Engine.
It is part of the series' accessibility.
It is hosted by Archer's 72 and is about six minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Archer's 72 talks about Piper TTS using a Piper voice.
Hello HBR.
This is your host Archer's 72 for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
My subject today is the Text to Speech Tool Piper Found on GitHub.
And I thought it appropriate to do this episode using a Piper voice.
I started looking into this because the other well-known text to speech engine is festival.
And I wanted to try something that sounded more natural.
I am using Fedora Linux on my laptop and was having trouble installing Piper through
the Python tool, PIP.
The resulting messages start code.
Collecting Piper TTS using cache Piper TTS 1.2.0 Py3 9any.whl.meta data 776 bytes
The conflict is caused by Piper TTS 1.2.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.1.0 Piper TTS 1.1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil on Piper phone miles till equals 1.0 the pencil
you could try to. One of those in the range of package versions you've specified to remove package versions to allow PIP attempt to solve the dependency conflict and code so instead of using Python Pit I downloaded the release tar.gz file Piper Linux x86 64.tar.gz and use tar xvf Piper Linux x86 64.tar.gz to extract the files and move the Piper directory to slash Tusser slash local slash spin slash rename the Piper directory to Piper bin and create a
symbolic link from slash us or slash local slash spin slash Piper bin slash Piper to slash us or slash local slash spin slash Piper Next we need some voices to work with the Piper engine.
engine, which were downloaded until the slash get slash and doing this. I learned today
about get LFS or get large file system, start code, DNF, install get LFS, get LFS, install
get clone, HTTDS, colon slash, slash hugging face, .co slash, rasp slash, piper voices.
End code, now we just need sample text to test a voice or two. I will be using William
Shakespeare's excerpt from the hamlets of Liliqui, with the famous to be or not to be quote,
Suliqui slash Siliqui slash now in a dramatic or literary form of discourse in which a character
talks to himself or herself or reveals his or her thoughts when alone or unaware of
the presence of other characters. A specific speech or piece of writing in this form,
the act of speaking to oneself. I will start off with a Ryan model. As you will soon see,
it's faulty and gets speeds over certain area of text, I thought it was piper acting
up, but when I tried a few other voices on the same passage, everything sounded fine.
To be, or not to be, that is the question.
Whether it is nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing end them,
to die to sleep no more, and by a sleep to say we end the heartache and the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to.
Tis a consummation devoutly to be wish, to die to sleep, to sleep per chance to dream eye.
There's the rub, for in that sleep of Teftlat dreams may come,
when we have shuffled off to this mortal coil.
Let's give us public that there's respect that makes clam the of soul long life.
For who would bear the witch in scorns of time?
Teacher pressed it as wrong?
The proud man's can doomly, the pans of the spritz love,
the lost delay, the insolence of office,
and the sprints of the patient's nerve teeth and where they take so that he himself might as quiet as snake with a bear aboddkin.
Who would be with her, with her, with her, with her, with her, with her, with her?
Thus conscience doth make cowards of us all,
and thus the native hue of resolution is sickly the or with the pale cast of thought,
and enterprises of great pith and moment with this regard their currents turn awry and lose the name of action.
I asleep to say we in the heartache and the thousand natural shocks that flushes air to you.
Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished, to die, to sleep, to sleep, for chance to dream, on.
There's the rub, for in that sleep of death what dreams may come when we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
must give us pause, now for a treat, a sample of the same in Dutch.
Agents, asi of troglas, and by opposing, and then,
to die to sleep, more and by last sleep, the zeilenden de hertas, and the thousand natural shocks that flushes air to Tis,
a consummation devoutly to be wished, to die, to sleep, to sleep, for chance to dream,
on. There's the rub, for in that sleep of death what dreams may come when we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
must give us pause, the respect, that makes calamity, or so long weaver.
For we'll walk by the wicks and squirts of town, the oppressors, from the Brautmanskontumini,
the pangs of disprayst over the lost light, insolence, of office,
all the sperms that present me out of the room were texer, and he himself might have to make a wet,
a barre botkin.
We'll walk fordals, by the grunt and sweeten the awi,
liven butt, that it reed, or so metting, afterdeter,
in the scoffery country, from woeze boon, in the tavelen retens,
plus as the will and mech, ratter by those eels,
we have then three daughters, that we're still not off.
So, we can't make a goat, or we're all between the native,
or the resolution is not clear, or the banic cast, or the end of the princess, or the quake pit.
At the moment, it's time for a wick, an awi, an endless name, or action.
Without disturbing other people in the house.
And this is the perfect avenue in which to do that, if this tool works for you,
feel free to leave comments on this show, better yet,
record a show of your own, looking forward to hearing from the next host,
whether it be by text-to-speech, or microphone.
Remember to support free software and apps in the aftroids store if you use Android.
This has been your host, Archer72, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio,
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our creative comments,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
