Episode: 4279
Title: HPR4279: What is on My Podcast Player 2024, Part 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4279/hpr4279.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:25:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4279 for Thursday the 26th of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled, What is On My Podcast Player 2024 Part 4.
It is part of the series podcast recommendations.
It is hosted by Ahukah and is about 19 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, this is an update on the podcasts Ahukah listens to.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahukah welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
And this is one for the Reserve Q. Now what that means is that if you are hearing this,
HPR is running short of shows and it's time for you to record one.
And I'm here to demonstrate just how easy it is.
This is about what is in my podcast player, I've done a number of shows like this for the
Reserve Q. And the way I did it is I simply went into the G-Potter, which is what I use,
exported an OPML file and printed it out.
And I'm just sitting here reading through one at a time the podcasts that I have and talking
a little bit about them.
So that's what this is about.
Now if that's too hard for you to do, you may have issues.
So get out there, record some shows, it's not that hard.
So the first one I'm going to start with here is called The Beatles Naked.
Deep research, unconventional topics, probing interviews and hard hitting info that doesn't
pull any punches.
So you know, another Beatles podcast basically, I listen to a number of them.
This one is pretty good, Richard Busken is the person who does most of this, occasionally
he is assisted by Eric Taros.
Now the next one is called Guitar Case and that is a podcast about everything and anything
to do with the guitar.
And it was created by a fellow named Don Ross.
He's a Canadian finger style guitarist who I happen to be a huge fan of.
I think I have just about all of his recordings.
And if he produces another one, I'll get that one too.
I also subscribe to his YouTube channel because he'll occasionally do concerts or YouTube
videos of interest.
So that's Guitar Case.
Next is a show called Inward Empire.
And it is described as the past is another country, they do things differently there.
And it goes on to say Inward Empire explores the role of ideas in ideology and American
history, how the surface of actions and events can be shaped by undercurrents of thought
and belief.
So it's a very interesting program.
I haven't seen anything from them in about a year or so at this point.
Now I have things that are podfated that I leave in G-Potter because occasionally one
of them comes back.
And for many of these, it's also the case that while they haven't been releasing new material,
the stuff they have previously released is still available.
So if you want to get an interesting slant on some topics in American history, this
is something you could take a look at.
Now, the next one is a podcast called Inquiring Mines.
This is a sporadic, maybe once a month, used to be weekly.
But you know how it is, people get busy, interest change, what have you.
So Inquiring Mines is supposed to be about a place where science and society collide and
making an effort to understand how the world around us works and how it affects our thinking.
Next one, Tides of History.
This is one of my favorites.
This is a historian named Patrick Wyman.
Right now I'm listening to a bunch of stuff about very early prehistory, basically.
You know, what was the human race like before we started writing everything down, what was
going on.
And he did a whole long, like a year long series of shows looking at different aspects of
that.
I first found Patrick Wyman through a podcast he did called The Fall of Rome.
And he did something very interesting.
He looked at what was happening from around that 476 period and the next century or two
after that, you know, how were people's lives affected by what was going on.
And it is a very interesting point of view that he had with us and so I'm enjoying all
of his stuff.
He released a book and I bought that.
Now the next one I have here is Cruise Radio.
Now one of the things my wife and I like to do because we're both retired is travel.
And we've done a few cruises, we've got, we're planning one for 2025 right now.
And so this is a weekly Cruise News podcast, ship reviews, money saving tips, answers to
your travel questions, et cetera.
Then there's the Prague Axia Progressive Rock podcast.
I like Prague Rock.
So, you know, groups like Yes, King Crimson, Renaissance, Marillion, you know, that's something
I happen to enjoy.
And so here's a whole podcast devoted to that, interviews, reviews, commentary on all
aspects of Progressive Rock.
And another history one, the history of World War II podcast.
So this is a very detailed, sequential, chronological look at World War II.
Every episode, you know, takes us a little bit further in telling the story.
And they're up to like four or five hundred episodes so far, and the war isn't over yet.
So, you know, if you are deeply interested in World War II history, we're taking a look
at.
Another one I have similar is called The Civil War, a history podcast.
Well narrative of the Civil War era in the United States.
So it's the American Civil War we're talking about here.
So again, it's like I say, I got a lot of history podcasts on my list.
Next one, Terminus, a Doctor Who podcast, and described as a queer woman's perspective
on Doctor Who, both the classic and the new series.
So I like Nicole's take on things.
She has some very interesting perspectives, and I'm a big Doctor Who fan.
I enjoy hearing her perspectives.
Now I found out about her because she was frequently brought in as a guest on discussing who,
one that we talked about earlier with Kyle Jones and Lee Shackleford and Clarence Brown.
And so I heard her there, and then it's like, okay, seems like an intelligent person with
an interesting perspective, so I subscribed to her podcast.
Next one is Relativity.
This is a audio drama written by Lee Shackleford from the Discussing Who podcast fame.
And it, you know, I like audio drama of various kinds, and Lee does a very interesting one.
It's basically about a colony ship being sent out is one of a number of colony ships sent
out from Earth, and something, there's stuff going on on Earth that make it look like,
you know, maybe that won't be able to support life too much longer.
And then all sorts of things go wrong.
So there's a mystery at the heart of this.
I don't want to say anymore because, you know, you don't want to give away the plot too much,
but it is a great podcast.
If you're into audio dramas at all, I recommend it highly.
And there is the Language Tutor.
And this is the Language Tutor Spanish.
And that is a podcast that is tied in with a YouTube channel called the Language Tutor.
And as you may know, I've been learning Spanish, and so these are like, you know, 15, 20 minute
explorations of a particular topic in the Spanish language, but it's in English.
So, you know, I can understand what they're saying.
Then Fortunes Wheel, a podcast history of the late Middle Ages.
Now, this is an interesting, I like this stuff because we're starting to re-evaluate a lot of things.
People used to refer to the dark ages.
As, you know, when the Western Roman Empire fell, everything fell into darkness.
And, you know, people were ignorant and savage.
And, you know, historians have looked at that and said, you know, that's not really what happened.
There wasn't as much written down, yeah, but, you know, it was not as benighted a period as
people sometimes portray it. And, you know, the modern Western world,
Europe and North America, which ended up affecting so much of the world, all comes out of this
period. So, you know, this is the history that brought all of us to life here.
So, it's a podcast I like.
Now, another language one. This is Coffee Break Spanish.
And, the idea of Coffee Break is the tagline that Mark, the host, uses, is turn your downtime into
due time. Mark is quite a polyglot, is Scotsman, who speaks, I don't know, seven or eight languages,
and is always learning another one, and then set up this company that does what he calls Coffee
Break. And so, the idea is it's like a 15-minute, 20-minute lesson that theoretically you could do
on your Coffee Break. So, if you're interested in language learning, you know, that's stuff worth
checking out. The way he does it is that Mark gets together with a native speaker in whatever
language, and the two of them together will discuss the topic.
Another history one, the China History Podcast.
That's been around for a while. It started in 2010. Over 300 episodes,
start, you know, looking at topics in the history of China. And I think we're starting to
realize China might be pretty important in the world going forward. So, nothing wrong in
learning a little bit about where China comes from and what that history looks like.
Now, another ancient history one, it's called The Ancients, a podcast for all ancient history
fans. The Ancients is dedicated to discussing our distant past featuring interviews with
historians and archaeologists. Each episode covers a specific theme from antiquity from
Neolithic Britain to the fall of Rome. I think it does what it says on the 10.
Next one, The History of England. This is a particular retelling of the story of England,
chronologically, starting from the end of Roman Britain. Where you choose is a starting point.
Everyone has different ideas. I think what happened before the Romans got there is probably
interesting, but that would be mostly archaeological because there wasn't a whole lot of written
history going on. But I think it's an interesting thing, again, you know, if you're interested in
history. Another podcast I'm subscribed to is something called Hacker Public Radio.
It's a podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Our shows are produced
by the community. That's you. And can be on any topic that are of interest to hackers and hobbyists.
That sentence could probably be improved, but, you know, what the hell?
Then there's ninth world journal.
It's set one billion years in the future. It is the story of a man who randomly teleports
to strange and dangerous places with no way of controlling it. So this is another audio drama
kind of thing. Now, the first science fiction audio drama that I started listening to was the
relativity podcast that we discussed earlier. And then that links me to others because the host of
that podcast would start talking about, well, these other people you really should be paying attention
to. And that's how I found some of these others. And one of those also is something called
Oz 9. It's spring 2142, a Tuesday. And gated galaxies has launched its 400 Oz 8,000
ships, each carrying 50,000 resting guests to hopefully a new home on a shiny brand new planet,
except this whole terraform and takeover idea isn't actually the plan. The real plan is far
more nefarious and involves a great deal of cackling. But those aboard the ships don't know that.
So off they toggle those that make it out of burst atmosphere at least.
I hope that description is something you find interesting.
Then another one is called Tendril, the Banshee Chronicles,
set near 2287, which follows the epic tale of Cade, Cronist and Switch, soldiers in the paranormal
division of a futuristic Earth's military who face otherworldly threats. As they face down a galaxy
of ghosts, demons and monsters grotesque beyond belief, our brave heroes stare boldly into the abyss
and hope it doesn't have teeth. Now the British history podcast,
a chronological retelling of the history of Britain with a particular focus upon the lives of the
people. You won't find a driver counting of dates and battles here, but instead you'll learn
about who these people were and how their desires, fears and flaws shape the histories of England,
Scotland and Wales. So with that, I think I've done enough for one episode, so I'm going to
sign off and as always encourage all of you to support FreeSoftware. Bye-bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HPR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net. On the Sadois
Stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
