Episode: 4285
Title: HPR4285: What is on My Podcast Player 2024, Part 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4285/hpr4285.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:27:42

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4285 for Friday the 3rd of January 2025.
Today's show is entitled, what is on my podcast player 2,024, Part 5.
It is hosted by Ahu Ka and is about 14 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, this is an update on the podcasts Ahu Ka listens to.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, this is Ahu Ka, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio in another exciting episode.
This is one for the Reserve Q. If you are hearing this right now, that means that HPR needs
shows and it's up to you to provide them.
It's not hard.
Let me explain how I'm doing this.
This is a show about podcasts that I listen to.
All I did was I went into G Potter, exported an OPML file that listed all of the podcasts
I subscribe to, printed it out, and I'm sitting here with a printout in front of me and
a microphone.
This is not rocket science, it's easy enough to do.
So I've done a number of these already and so we're just going to keep going here.
This one I'm going to mention is something called the down ballot and this is a political
podcast, kind of a left wing perspective that is, you know, I say left in parentheses.
Not really socialist, it's more like democratic party, which would be centrist in Europe, but
anyway.
It's dedicated to the thousands of elections across America for offices other than the presidency,
which, you know, everyone pays attention to presidential elections.
They're saying there's a lot of others you ought to pay attention to.
Next one I'm going to mention is the Journal of African History podcast and it highlights
interviews with historians whose work has appeared in the Journal of African History,
a leading source of peer-reviewed scholarship on Africa's past.
So this is from my neck of the woods, Michigan State University does this and again, it's
important.
You know, Africa is going to be increasingly important as the years go by.
And next one is called The Rest is History with Tom Holland and Dominic Sandbrook.
This is a very nice podcast, the two historians, you know, having a discussion with each other
about whatever is going on, like right, as I'm recording this, we're going through a series
of four or five podcasts talking about the conflict between Rome and Carthage.
But anything that happened in history is okay.
Now, next thing I'm going to mention is a podcast called Escaping Casturborus, which
sounds like an odd name.
This is a Doctor Who podcast and it's mostly about reviewing various stories and it's a husband
and wife team.
Actually, when they started, they weren't married yet, but anyway.
And the Casturborus is because the lore about Doctor Who is that Gallifrey is in the constellation
of Casturborus.
So this is a fun one if you're into Doctor Who.
Next is another audio drama, science fiction audio drama called Sage and Savant.
When a laboratory accident leads to electrocution and the accidental discovery of time travel,
Dr. Petronella Sage alongside her faithful friend and companion, Erasmus Savant, ceases
the opportunity to make her mark in the annals of history.
So you know, it's a little fun bit of audio fiction.
And another one called Girl in Space, nothing fancy here, just the simple audio diary of
a girl in space.
Also there's this weird and potentially ominous light in the distance it seems to be growing
steadily closer.
Listen for science, guns, trust, and I matter, truth, beauty, inner turmoil and delicious
cheeses.
It's all here in space.
Now, next one is going to be the History of the World podcast.
Incredible story of the human history of the world.
All right, basically what it's about.
Next one, the Josh Marshall podcast.
Josh Marshall is the editor-in-chief of an online site called Talking Points Memo.
It's basically a democratic party kind of view of politics.
So if you're into that sort of thing, this is a good one.
Talking Points Memo is considered one of the more reliable sources for this kind of thing.
Then there's Science Friday.
Science Friday is an NPR radio program.
It's been going on for a number of years here in the United States.
But then they decided to turn it into a podcast as well.
Now what they're doing is they're taking it.
It used to be they do two hours every Friday on the radio and then just send those two
hours out as a pair of hour long podcasts.
Then they decided, we can break it up into segments and one or two segments every day
into your podcast feed.
So it's all about science and it involves interviewing scientists basically about the
work that they're doing.
Then there's the Frommers travel show.
There's a fellow named Arthur Frommer who long in the 1950s published a series of Europe
on $5 a day.
That started the Frommer guidebooks.
His daughter, Pauline, has taken over the podcast and I think probably is largely involved
in the management of the whole enterprise.
And so she has guests on interviews them about topics and travel.
And as I've said, that's something my wife and I like to do.
Now I've got another language tutor one.
I mentioned the Spanish one.
Spanish was the first language I attempted.
We are now planning a trip to France.
So I've added French to it and so we've got the language tutor French here.
Again, same kind of thing.
It's based on a YouTube channel called the language tutor and they're taking that content
and putting it into, you know, 15, 20 minute audio podcasts.
Then who corner to corner, a doctor who podcast?
So there's two pretty constant hosts but they bring on guests, they do interviews as well
as reviewing shows.
If you're into Dr. Who, it's one that I typically enjoy.
I've got another doctor who won here called Reality Bond, a doctor who podcast.
Now this name may sound a little bit strange if you're not a Huvian as we refer to it.
But in the 2009 series of, was it 2008, specials that culminated in the end of the series,
end of the season was the stolen earth.
And the stolen earth is stolen by, it ends up being the Daleks.
And they've got a plan that involves wiping out all of reality and they're doing it with
something called the Reality Bond.
So these folks took that, it's a good, it's a good podcast.
They do something that no one else does that I know of.
And that is, they do sketch comedy.
So one of the ones I saw was sort of a fake police procedural drama called Spoiler
Cops, go around arresting people for giving spoilers.
So this is a fun one.
Then there's one called Ukraine Russia War Talk.
And that involves a couple of people, one of whom is a Ukrainian, I'm not sure if he's
a military person or what, but he's from the Ukraine, the other is Philips O'Brien who's
a professor of, I don't know exactly what, I read his book about World War II talking
about how that war was won and was impressed by the book.
And so when he did this, I said, oh, I'll subscribe to his podcast.
Next there is one from Daily Coast, another sort of democratic party aligned organization
and it's called The Brief.
And it's a weekly podcast, you know, up to one hour, you know, on whatever is going on
in politics in the progressive movement at that time.
Then there's two minute time, Lord.
This is another doctor who, but the thing is it's short, is it always exactly two minutes?
No, but I haven't seen it, I've only seen one so far that went over five minutes.
So they really are short and so it does what it says on the tin.
And I'm going to finish with another doctor who podcast that I have come to really enjoy.
And it's a very interesting title, Galafrey Public Radio.
Oh, how about that?
Name like that, I would have to at least take a look.
So it looks at all of Dr. Who, now there's the classic doctor who, which is what started
in 1963 and ran up till the late 80s before BBC decided to stop doing it.
And then there's the new series that started in 2005 and is still ongoing.
But they do all of it.
So there's like 60 years worth of material that they can draw upon for this.
And I like the way they do it.
So I'm happy to be subscribed to that one as well.
And that actually completes my look at everything that is in my podcast player at this point.
So once again, it's not hard to do these shows.
Don't make it harder than it needs to be.
I've done stuff where I just clipped a MP3 player that with a built-in microphone and
clipped it to my collar and gave a talk somewhere and suddenly it's a show on Hacker Public
Radio.
People do stuff recording while they're driving in their cars.
So if you are hearing this coming out of the reserve queue, step up and do something.
Because at some point, if we don't get shows, we're going to shut it down.
And I don't think I want that to happen.
And I'm hoping you don't want that to happen if you're listening to this.
So this is a hookah for Hacker Public Radio signing off and is always encouraging you
to support FreeSoftware.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, you can click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and
our sings.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
