Episode: 4056
Title: HPR4056: Helping with back pain
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4056/hpr4056.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 19:05:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,056 from Monday the 19th of February, 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Helping with Back Pain.
It is hosted by Kevin and is about 9 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, my experience using the Copper Fit Advanced Back.
Hello, hello, this is Kevin and welcome to another episode of HPR.
Now the topic I want to talk about today is one that's not entirely techy or geeky in
itself.
But it is probably one that affects a lot of people who actually spend quite a bit of time
on the computer.
And the issue actually is back pain.
And I've had it for quite a number of years.
I've been through a variety of different physios and physio exercises.
But when it generally gets bad, I've not found anything that's actually worked.
In the UK, we don't have half as much of the medical accessories except, and certainly
not advertised as they have on the television in the U.S.E.
And I'm a big fan of both types of the American football, like everyone I've seen both
types, sorry, but I mean his college and their professional.
I will actually watch likes of Canadian and the arena league if we can get, it's very
difficult to get and they watch in the UK.
Essentially, I watch quite a lot of that and for that I have to watch the U.S. TV for
that.
Now one of the things that they constantly advertise is the brand Copper Fit.
And after seeing it quite a few times, I thought, I'm going to give this a try.
So I try about the Copper Fit Back Pro.
So Copper Fit Back Pro, compression and support.
Now I just thought, I'm going to have this just try this out.
If it's a disaster fine, they're not overly expensive.
I think at the time I paid about £25 for it, at that price I didn't really care.
If it didn't work, but I thought I won't at least try it.
Now just to give you a bit of an idea over the style of paint I get, I get it in the
lower back and usually off to the sides.
Not the centre down the spine, but usually off to the sides, specifically the right-hand
side actually.
I get it whenever I sit down for a length of time at all, so it could be sitting down
and watching the tail, it could be at the computer, or it could even be something like
on a long-train journey, bus journey, plane journey and then like that.
If I'm seated for any length of time more than let's say 15, 20 minutes, I get back
being.
So I thought I'm going to give this a try.
They didn't have any stock of the size that would have fitted me, so I was according
to their own website.
I should have been a medium L, because I'm a Wast-34 to 36.
The L to Excel was Wast-39 to 50, so that's actually quite a bit up.
So I just thought, well I'm going to give it a try, even if it doesn't work.
I'm just going to go for it.
So I went for the L, Excel size, and thankfully this is when that I'd, it's got a big area
of Velcro which attaches, and I don't actually think, to be honest, I'm like I said in my
size, 34 to 36 depending on the brand.
I think if I was any smaller I'd waste this wooden fit, but the Velcro seems to go just
quite nicely onto the end, so now when you're sitting with it, it's not uncomfortable at
all.
I mean, it's not unnoticeable, you can feel a difference, but I've now just checking
on my purchase, so at the time of recording this is a 23rd of January, and I purchased
this on the 19th of November 2023, so a little over two full months have been waiting it.
To give you an idea of what I have tried this, I have tried this sitting using the computer
for quite a long time.
I've tried it sitting watchin' italy, but I also tried it when I was away at Christmas
time, and when I drove over to the mainland and drove from the majority of the length of
Scotland in one go, and what amazed me was, there was absolutely no back pain after doing
it.
It was utterly fantastic, I really wish, I mean I'd been seen this advertised for quite
a few years, I wish I'd tried this sooner.
It may not work for everybody, but it's not going to work for different things, but whatever
it's done, it's basically done what a number of years of physio couldn't.
So for that, I am definitely going to get it approved, it gets my seal of approval.
Like I said, I paid 25 pounds for it, you may have to pay more, you have to pay less,
I think I got it on eBay.
I would highly recommend it to anybody who is suffering, like I said, from back pain.
Whatever this I try, dead easy to fit, it's just simply a velcro, don't worry about
the velcro popping off, it doesn't, I can actually pull listening really tight, and to
the point where I'm going to breathe in, and even then, when it's kind of uncomfortable,
if I sit down with it and breathe out, it still does not pop out.
I do have to kind of change to the does actually offer very good support, because at that point
it's actually too tight, but just to show you that it doesn't just pop off.
So as I said, that is the corporate backprew.
Now, those of you who recognise my voice, know that I'm on TuxJam, and as is usual,
the TuxJam podcast is a mix of creative Collins music and open source software.
So I'm going to sign out with a tune from, got this from Jemento, it's an old tune, it's
by the band Black Pepper, and the one and only album Frozen Turtle was released way back,
I believe it's in 2010.
So the track I'm going to sign off with is Triple Puff.
Now, if you like this, if you enjoy Takar Public Radio, please do continue to contribute.
It doesn't have to be anything professional, as you've heard today, it certainly doesn't
have to be anything geeky.
Just record it, record it on your phone, record it on anything, even just a simple, most
computers come with a microphone, a simple bit of sound editing, send it off as a flak.
I'm pretty much there to do the rest.
Until next time, this is Keri signing off, enjoy the track.
Thank you very much for joining us today, thank you for joining us today, thank you very, very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for
joining us today, thank you very much
Thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for
joining us today, thank you
very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us
Thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much for
joining us today, thank you very much
for joining us today, thank you very much, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you very much
