Episode: 4261
Title: HPR4261: HPR Community News for November 2024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4261/hpr4261.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 22:17:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4261 from Monday the 2nd of December 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for November 2024.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 111 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Kevin and Ken Red's Solest Spider Comments.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today it's Community News for November 2020-24 and joining me this evening is...
Sorry for those who were expecting Dave, but as Dave announced last month, he retired.
So I'm stepping in for this month in a week now.
Thank you for doing so.
It's a lot better having two people than people having to suffer.
Listen to something to suffer me for two hours waffling off.
Absolutely, and I'll be the same if I was just doing it myself.
No, I thought I'm not going to let you down, especially given I had actually listened to.
After me seeing the opposite at on-camp, that normally I listened to HPR Community News and then listen back for the last two months.
I'm actually listening to them all.
Very good.
And if you, I think this show is open to the general public.
So if you give us a shout out at the beginning of the month, if you want to join next month, then we have a heads up and we can also schedule us according to your timing.
If there's people who want to volunteer as like a rotating host thing, then we can accommodate that as well.
And we typically recorded after my work in a Friday evening.
That's the handiest because then that gives us a few days to make sure it gets propagated to all the places and stuff.
So Dave, Dave.
I won't have it stay hard.
I'm 12 years of saying Dave.
Why Dave, why have you left me?
Kevin, would you like to take over Dave's role and welcome the new hosts?
Absolutely.
Although those are big shoes to fill, but I'll do my best.
So we shall first one, notice this, I'm saying first we have one new host.
A big welcome to Solar Spider, who many of us will know as a Peter Patterson over in the U.S.A.
Former Scotsman.
Oh, no.
They didn't they didn't de-scotify him when he just because he switched over there.
So current Scotsman just living abroad.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And no peer pressure and all was involved in bringing him into the community.
I was following the threads on the mastodon and it was it was a site to behold like vultures.
Probably down in the poor holes.
Oh, it's a bit dangerous.
A bit dangerous.
What's that?
I don't know.
Yes, what's it to?
No.
Oh, no.
Oh.
Anyway, we're probably getting ahead of ourselves for people joining the HVR community.
This HVR is the community podcast focused around tech dedicated to sharing knowledge,
releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday, and any topic that can be of interest to
attackers.
And that's a wide spectrum.
If you go to the about page and look on governance, you'll see that the community is run by the people
on the mailing list and meritocracy.
And the policies and decisions are implemented by janitors like myself.
And so if you, we just implement the policies, we don't make them necessarily.
We do a community members, but that's a bit of a lot.
One show a month we put on, which is this one.
And it's called the community news.
And we go through every show to make sure everybody hears what shows have been on in the
last month.
And also give some feedback and suggestions for other shows that you listening or people who
have submitted shows might make.
So that's does that sound good?
I'd say so, yes.
And like you said, the one thing I do like is it's of interest to hackers, which as you see,
it's a very, very wide broad thing.
So if you think, oh, I'm not geeky enough, trust me, you are.
If you listen here, you already are.
Yes.
It's a relatively low barrier entry.
And if the barrier does hit you, then we will dig and make sure that you can get over.
So what we typically do is introduce new us, which we've done.
And we go through some of the shows that were on last month.
And the first one on the first of the month, which was the Friday, of course, means it's
and the hookah show usually 50% chance at least.
And this one was the first doctor part one.
Yeah, I must have been.
I thoroughly enjoyed this one.
Yeah, continuing and I have to confess, I was not much of a doctor who fan ever really.
Like I mentioned that last show, but I've really enjoyed this series by a hookah.
And yeah, him going through the different parts, quite interesting about the doctor who missing
episode, but as you know, it was very common at the time that the BBC, I believe, was
anything into re-recording the shows.
So a lot of the old stuff.
And I don't know, you're probably got the same shows from when you were growing up there
and I remember one, the vital spark.
And there was a 282 to 30 shows, something like that.
And because of this re-recording, only four of them still exist.
And there are great shows, but they're gone forever.
Yeah, yeah.
And this is where the cause of the recording tapes were expensive.
So as the BBC is a public service, it was seen as a waste of money.
The show was out, it was aired, it was over, it was a formal thing, and then you move on.
And you record over the tapes.
But from time to time, they sometimes sent tapes over to other broadcasters in South Africa or Zimbabwe or wherever.
And occasionally they'll be found, tapes will be found, somebody's garage somewhere, and you know,
somebody passed away, and then they'll find actual originals of Doctor Who.
And yeah, very, very interesting, episode, well worth a watch, even if you're not really into Doctor Who.
It's just a good show basically on archiving in general and how, you know, all things come to an end.
Yes, totally.
And the thing is, they've got geeks like us to thank for this, because I remember Hooka saying in the show,
I'm pretty sure, I seem to remember, I'd be saying that there was a lot of the ones of where it kind of discovered,
where basically the techy guys grabbing a hold of them, and they were actually with notes saying for destruction,
or to be destroyed or something.
Yes, go on to the geek community.
So there were three comments on that.
Should we go through them?
Yes, go through yours.
First, not a problem.
So I entice them.
I'm keep them coming.
Thank you, Ahooka, for these episodes.
I've never been interested in Doctor Who since first watching it as a child, but I do like sci-fi,
and I'm really enjoying these episodes.
I love the fact that you're going right back to the start and giving the background to the whole idea.
And Kevin, Kevin, Kevin O'Brien.
It's complicated with all the Kevin's now.
More to come, I plan to cover more than just Doctor Who, but I have a lot more coming,
including the golden age of sci-fi.
And I responded as well to the show.
I'd love to say I watched those episodes, but to be honest, I was hiding behind the couch.
Did you have the Dalek heads as CCTV when you were young?
Yes, oh, they're terrifying.
I refused to go to any boots.
Boots, the chemist, always had them scared to crap.
Don's doors have them and they're like, oh man, they were scary.
And that was the thing about Doctor Who, right?
I suppose US people were used to have US people seeing scenes depicted in movies and stuff.
This was a series where they took normal everyday street things like a post box or something
and turned it into an alien or a statue that you might come across on the street
and turned it into a scary thing.
And I really had an impact on me.
I was terrified by that.
Oh, yeah, totally.
It was funny.
I think that the scene of them, it wasn't so bad for me on the TV,
but seeing them in real life, was just awful.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
I was going on into the tangent there because the first time I went to America and landed
on my downside, I was struck by, you know, not all the changes and everything,
because it all looked so familiar.
But you saw some telecommunication workers working on the telephone pole.
And then my immediate thought was not that their telecommunication workers working on the telephone pole.
It was like that there were FBI agents sticking out some place.
But it's the only context I've ever seen telecom workers in the US on TV either.
Yeah, I can get that.
I remember the first time I've been on the mainland, I've been doing it my sister.
And for a length of time.
And yeah, of course, just my wife see this into crime.
She loves any form of crime reading or watching it, any form of crime drama.
And there was two guys sitting outside her flat in a car.
It was a black cow.
And I think it was really paranoid.
I might be watched.
This is crazy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So we had a community news was the next show.
And there's quite a lot of comments on their Claudio M. said commentary on episode 4231.
And this is the T-Mox CD free BSD thing.
And we have been commenting about about that.
Agents, thanks for the comments on the show.
I guess I should have been clearer when I compare the synchronization features of T-Mox to that of cluster SSH.
While I could have done the commands using cluster SSH.
I preferred leaving the multiplex to T-Mox on the free BSD boxes with a single SSH session.
From whichever client I was using to perform the duplication.
The other reason I did this was this way over using cluster SSH.
Is because I don't always need to SSH to the box sensors in my office.
Doing it this way allows me to log into the box directly from the console.
And then pull up T-Mox sessions to see the status and duplication even being another session after swapping out the USB drives themselves.
As mentioned by Ken, scripting this is possible.
It's a possibility, but we all know not to treat DD lightly.
As that can be a recipe for disaster.
I was thinking of Harry Larry's technique of using ABCDE.
But since that's only for ripping CDs, it won't work here.
Of course, I'm open to potential episodes from others that know a better way, smiley face.
See what he did there. See what he did there. That's a parallel action.
Absolutely. And comment number two was from Torren Doyle, hunting buzzing.
Hey, Ken, out. Please don't encourage hunting.
I heard the Scottish guy. I'll assume I'll be me.
Sorry, don't recall his name. Mention hunting.
Well, each third on, I'd say.
There was a very noticeable buzzing from the English guys audio.
Sorry, don't recall his name.
A great show as usual. Thanks, guys.
And because of all these kind of negative comments, they've decided to retire.
So it's a year of fault for trolling the devil.
This has high.
Torren Doyle.
As the English guy and the team and having listened to the show,
using the version available on the other feed,
I heard nothing that could be described as buzzing, which foremost were you listening to.
And then Dave Lee, who we most of us know as the love bug, Dave's buzzing.
Hey, Dave Paraloid.
I had to listen to the org file.
Unlike their p3 pile, I got a feed.
I got from the feed on my pod catcher.
There is a definite buzzing possibly means hum behind your audio, Dave.
And Dave says to the other Dave,
my ancient MP3 player only accepts MP3 files.
So I went with that.
I much prefer org files.
I just listened to the audio again here on the web page.
And it's actually more like a low home gun abusing,
but it's certainly quite noticeable using earphones.
This is a tutorial again.
You had me thrown there, right?
So Dave Morris responded.
Thanks to Dave and Torren.
I am now aware of a thing that I can't actually hear.
I developed a nightish about 20 years ago,
and though it doesn't bother me very much, it does me a lot.
It does mean I can't hear certain ranges.
I think my microphone, a Samsung C01U,
is picking up the main sum, maybe from my now old desktop,
or the nearby fridge freezer.
I recently moved the mic stand to the other end of the shelf over the desk,
but although it seems to have fixed other distortions,
it didn't do enough.
I plan to remodel everything as soon as I can,
probably over Christmas.
When I record my own shows, I usually use my Zoom H3N recorder on a boom.
And it doesn't seem to get much interference.
I do sometimes use it for the community news recordings,
but I dropped it recently and broke the tripod mounting,
threading, threading the base, so it's nice to use.
Maybe I should call my retirement present.
I've printed a possible fix, but haven't tested it yet.
I tend to run all my recordings through the noise removal filter radacity,
but this particular show came from Ken's recording of the mumble streams,
so it would probably have been very difficult to clean up.
Anyway, I'll be back, as it were.
Typical.
That's why I fired the guy.
So it's Dave and Torren's fault that Dave had retired,
absolutely.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's not me overworking him for 12 years flat without paying innocent.
Is this from a quality?
Well, you're here voluntarily, dude.
Everything is voluntary on HVR.
Yeah, the shows must go on.
Interview with Lorenzo,
Councillor C.
Andra.
I butchered that, and I do apologize, Lorenzo.
And this was me tracking down some people
who I had wanted to interview at Alcamp,
but I couldn't get in round to it.
So I kind of pinged them on Master Don,
said, hey, can we catch up?
Literally, it was a virtual equivalent of sticking a microphone
under their nose.
They give a talk about mental health as Alcamp,
which, last I missed,
but there's a link to the project itself.
And also was there representing the sovereign tech fund,
which is like government,
German government,
giving cold hard cash to developers.
Did you ever listen?
Yeah, I did.
I had listened to that one, actually.
It was quite interesting seeing the difference,
because they seem to actually have quite a few avenues
to open for them in Germany.
Certainly, I don't know of that many here in the UK
that would actively help with the tech,
but yeah, it was really interesting.
I was probably talking to you at the time.
I missed this, I don't count.
Exactly, but, you know,
there's like three tracks going on,
so you're going to miss them.
So that's how I thought,
yeah, let's do this,
and they're interviews,
so they get out relatively quick at all.
Yes, absolutely.
So speaking of all count,
this was, this was me bugging Mr. X
for a,
this episode about a hand warmer,
and it's a long-term project review
of an electric hand warmer,
which are currently available,
and it's your winter in the Northern hemisphere,
which, let's face this, quite a lot of people are.
It's not only is a hand warmer,
but the doubles as a battery bank,
and it is so many different products out there
that it's hard to know
which one is going to be trustworthy.
And coincidentally,
just as he, on the same day that he released that,
my backlog of episodes from YouTube,
I come across,
Big Clive reviewing the exact same product,
and also saying it was a very good,
very well-engined product internally.
So, big thumbs up.
Yeah, that's good.
I actually must admit,
I was tempted to invest in one of these,
not so much for me.
I don't tend to suffer from the cold hands part,
but my wife does,
and I was thinking,
hmm, this could be a good restocking filler for Christmas.
So it's actually good to hear,
the worst of it is,
there are so many of those things available
that you don't know what we've done,
some what are good.
So to hear somebody,
actually whose expedience I thought that was great.
Excellent.
And that you,
one show I always try and get,
is your tux jam,
where you go over the,
you know, gifts for gigs section.
That's, that's a,
don't tell anyone,
but we've just recorded it,
but you should have a,
hmm.
Fantastic.
Okay.
The next day,
was Thursday,
with Henry Cameron,
with two methods for digitizing photos,
and this is pretty much an ongoing series,
and there are lots of comments.
So let me,
let me start.
Can you do the first one,
and then I'll do my response?
Yeah, that's my part.
Right, so the first comment is by Henrik Hermann himself.
So cladification equipment for Repro Photo,
Romantic on my Repro Setup.
My digital camera is mounted on a Repro stand.
The stand is similar to the stand used in the analog darkroom.
The duplication direction is opposite to the analog darkroom.
The camera is mounted on the stand,
while the object to be duplicated is placed on the base plate.
I have a light table on the base plate,
when a negative or positive is duplicated.
Mounted on the camera,
depending on lens,
may an extension tube be needed
to achieve the macro distance
to duplicate a small object.
Just had to look
of what a Repro stand was,
and it's essentially a metal plate
with a vertical bar,
out of it with a camera mount,
on that vertical mount,
a vertical bar,
with a mount on it so you can mount the camera,
facing straight down to the center of this plate.
I responded to him,
what hardware are you using?
Hi Henrik,
did you already go over the hardware you have used?
Henrik responded with yes, Ken.
It is all about hardware I have.
The Plexiglass is the only hardware I have not tested.
I have purchased one,
I have not tried yet how it would work
in the scanner or Repro.
I tested a thick glass plate for Repro first,
a plate intended to put under bottles,
that plate was not optimal in any way.
But else, yes,
have unused work and progress
to conclude what I believe is best method,
settings etc for my needs and equipment.
What I know is I get good quality
with both methods.
Do you want me to do the next one
so you can do your own?
Yeah, okay then, yeah.
So then we had comment four
from Charles in New Jersey.
Mr. Show because feet is broken.
I like this show,
but I almost missed it.
My Bash Podder based podcast,
Handler, that's easy for you to say,
is no longer working for HPR.
Instead of getting the current episodes,
it downloads a file called
cdn.php.
This is not useful.
If I can fix this,
I may record a show to describe who I did,
but it takes too much time or trouble.
I may quietly fade away.
Sorry to put this into such stark terms,
but I have a lot of things to juggle these days.
Crossing over the HPR feed is not something
I have time to do.
Charles in New Jersey.
And I opened up a bug 61 to cover this.
Checked Bash Podder.
And download the R-cells
and couldn't reproduce the issue.
I was in contact with Charles,
and he, happy to say,
has now gathered working
with the generic Bash Podder script
and also his modified Bash Podder script.
So hopefully,
Charles will be hearing this,
and we'll send us in some more shows
on Matt's.
I have a whole list ready,
ready for you to look at.
So shall we move on to the next day?
Yes.
And you caught me out there.
And the next day is Trey
with what's in my bag episode
from the Reserve Q
and he normally,
like us all,
have our comfortable way
of recording an episode,
but this one was born off the cuff
and went through his tag finding
all sorts of interesting things
and I was out of date stuff
that he used as so.
Yeah, I see.
But one of the things was like 2010.
I'm thinking, dude,
how old is this stuff in your bag?
Or did I pick that up wrong?
No, no, exactly.
We all gone through bags and go,
what?
Where did that come from?
Oh, yeah.
I've commented on this from my phone
because it also corrected my name
to name Fallon.
I just noticed that.
Backdores and breeders,
please do your show on this.
So he was talking about that in an episode
and just kind of lightly lost over it.
So here you are.
And by the by,
the Reserve Q is getting,
yeah, it's not as follows,
it could be.
So if you've got vacation time coming up,
sit down, record a few shows,
and try putting every other one into the Reserve Q.
So long as,
if it's an interview,
put it in the main Q.
If it's timely,
if it, you know,
if it's about a thing coming up,
put it in the main Q.
And if it's not,
you know,
just throw it in,
chuck it into the Reserve Q
and it'll probably come out next year.
Absolutely.
It's because, well,
as you've always said,
not just you can,
but it'll be the whole HPR.
It's once it's done,
once it's,
there's no space,
there's a space left
and there's no HPR episodes left
in the Reserve Q.
The project finishes.
And I'd be really sad to see that.
Yeah, so I,
but, you know,
it is, it is,
the world will end soon.
Potentially,
as Yastra just coming in,
our last show will be,
gosh,
look at the Yastra coming in.
What?
Still.
Recording and I couldn't introduce.
Recording show.
The following day was another one
from the Reserve Q,
by Lee,
and it would bite pages and screens,
a trek through some of,
there's podcasts,
books and TV shows
that Lee enjoys.
So various different podcasts,
various different books,
various different TV series.
I thought this was a kind of ideal one
for the actual Reserve Q,
because this is pretty untime,
it was a pretty time less,
unless, of course,
it's here 10 years in advance,
behind Sony.
Yeah, exactly.
So I thought
this one was actually really good,
although I do have an objection here,
I mean, given he was at the live recording,
and he didn't launch
mentioned TuX Jam,
that's just terrible.
I'm deeply hurt.
Well, this was in before
TuX Jam started.
It's been in there a while,
you see?
It's before you started podcasting.
So yeah,
in his defense.
Wow, that is a long time,
then.
Yeah, it can be,
it can be a while,
it can be a while in the show,
yes and eight and eight.
And as I commented on this episode,
saying,
Terry Pratchett,
I'm a huge,
Terry Pratchett fan,
did you ever check
the headers of HPR?
And
we have taught in Doyle,
commenting the next podcast books TV highly.
I love the podcast,
I love podcasts that leave detailed show notes
with all relevant links.
I tune Ms. Linux Outlaws.
Dan was great in particular.
I'm going to give Gnu World Order a go.
Since you mentioned that touched by an angel,
is religious with a lower case R,
it's time to try it.
Perhaps it's like highway to heaven,
cheers from the emerald dial.
Oh, we got a,
principal too.
Oh,
very good.
Yes, it would be similar to highway to heaven.
Yes, touch by an angel.
I reckon.
But some bad news.
Gnu World Order is also going to be shutting down shortly.
Yes, but that's the one negative thing.
I suppose with it,
if it does sit,
I didn't actually realize that it would be an ancient episode.
It would have been the other long time.
So not a hardcast, especially kind of podcasts,
like the majority of us do hear ourselves.
They are kind of volunteer things.
They're not,
it's not like he can be paid for them.
And plus people's tastes change.
So,
would you, when you might,
you know,
enthusiastic once upon a time,
work on life just might have gotten away.
Yeah, and you come back to us and,
but then you do another show,
you say,
that's very simple.
Absolutely.
Installing Gnu SD,
Barca Deer,
Rowan records,
installing Gnu SD on a Mac mini computer.
Not something that I would be,
so it's a graphical text-based installer,
reminiscent of Mid-to-Late 90s Debutons Installer.
So,
which is that one part of any similar to the cut-in debut installer?
Oh.
Actually,
I like the record-ass of it.
I like the record-ass of the old Debuton Installer.
I recently reinstalled Debuton machine here,
and it's just so comfortable.
I just know,
my, I have like,
muscle memory for Debuton Installs,
I've done them so,
so often.
But I've been running Fedora since,
like,
Fedora Corate,
and,
have,
haven't been run in Debuton since then.
But I could still install a Debuton computer with my eyes shut.
Yeah, absolutely.
There's something to be said for the steady and stable
and not challenging.
Yeah, yeah,
indeed.
So, no comments on that one.
Were you tempted by many?
Nice to be keyboard, actually.
They're linked,
they,
or I,
to giverks,
2.4GHz,
many wireless keyboard thing.
Yeah, I must admit,
I'm always tempted
when it comes to take projects,
but I also don't want to end up in the divorce courts.
That's what it's meant to be.
So,
the next day was another one by myself,
Millie Perkins,
who did a talk about home automation of Onki Camp.
Again,
another one of these,
just after work,
I went on the Jitsimis
with Millie and recorded it,
and yeah,
it was a great,
a great episode.
I really enjoyed talking to her,
and it was,
it's a good way for me to be able to
have experience the whole track,
and then talk to all the people
and get presentations.
So, I don't have to see their chats.
Absolutely.
It was, it was going to eat actually that.
And even listening to it again,
it was,
it was more or less just like she was standing in front of me again.
No, I got to hear this one.
It was probably one of my favorite talks.
I absolutely love this.
Yeah.
Like I said,
if you haven't,
the whole automation,
it's not so much,
if you're a seasoned pro,
but certainly even,
if you've got an interest in it,
then I'd recommend
shaking out your stuff.
Do you want to do your own up?
Come on.
Oh, yeah.
Forgot I had left all this.
Right.
A fantastic onki Camp talk.
I thoroughly enjoyed Millie onki Camp talk,
and I'm delighted to hear
that she is considering more options,
and also,
this left us with a hope
that she will also be starting
to record a few HPR episodes.
She had a great delivery style,
and she had me gripped
for the full 30 minutes.
This brought me right back to Manchester.
Thank you, Ken,
for clacking her day on recording this.
No bother.
Did your audio just break out
in there?
Oh, anyway.
I didn't know it.
Don't think so.
I've got the look of recording anyway, so.
I'll send you that.
Okay.
Good.
Thanks.
Yeah, I got,
got a big cardboard audio on my side.
That's.
It's doing it.
Don't worry.
No, no.
It seems fine.
But we'll carry on.
We'll carry on.
And I have no intention of editing
because I'm allergic to editing.
I have a note from my doctor.
And the following day,
we had a episode by your good self,
audio streaming from the command line.
And this is the exact type
on episode that gets got me involved
with HDR in the first place.
Very, very cool.
CVLC,
MPG123,
even WGET,
which I did not know you could do.
That was a good one on me.
And one that you missed was MPD.
My personal favorite
multimedia video player
will also play audio streams.
Oh, yes.
I've had experience with that in the past as well.
I didn't, we knew this to be a comprehensive one.
It was more not installing stuff.
I mean, although that was cheated
with MPG123
because I came across this.
I think it installs like 40 key.
It's just, it's so negligible.
It's just tiny.
Yeah.
I'm done quite a lot of distros, I think, by default.
So I said,
great tip.
I'm a huge fan of MPV myself.
You play as anything you throw us as an audio and video.
I would point, I decided that the home
TSR software at home
would be bash plus MPV.
It's amazing how good people get a Unix when they have to.
And Peter Patterson commented,
Kevin, very clear and concise talk on examples
of using the command line.
Thank you for giving the terminal some love
and encouraging us all to do the same.
Very good.
Jan says, just thanks.
Hello.
Thanks for the efforts made.
Jan.
That's a thank you for an economic cause.
As we all know,
the back is the currency
by which we pay our hosts.
Civilization part,
that would be four, I guess, part three.
Civilization four, part three.
That really this whole series of hookah,
trying to get the text to speech person to do this,
did my head in, literally did my head in.
And thankfully we have somebody who can actually speak
to this entire series.
Kevin, take it away.
Very good.
Yeah, so again,
another one I listened to and enjoyed.
And he talks about the concept of religion
in Civilization part four.
And this was apparently the first time religion
had come into it
from the Civilization series.
Yeah, I, like I said, I totally,
I'm loving this series.
And I totally get where the stuff is coming from.
It's something I'm quite familiar with.
When it comes to religion and games,
it's not, it's, it's, it's surprisingly not that much
of a new thing.
The first time I think I came across it was Shogun,
the Shogun series.
I think they won the first to bring,
that I remember bringing religion in.
But that doesn't mean they're the very first.
I mean, they're the first ones that I experienced.
And it was quite good in that.
It's amazing how much detail they put in it, you know,
because very often choosing our religion
will cause various effects.
We're choosing a particular one over the other.
But it also means that regardless of what you're,
who you're friendly with, very often,
if you choose a totally different religion,
then some civil, various civilizations
might actually lose a bit,
a bit with you, a bit of relations with you.
The other thing I quite liked as well was when he said,
I didn't know this one about civilization for what,
but when he said that,
if you are partnership with a territory
that has no religion,
and you become close,
then that state or that group in a civilization
for will adopt your religion.
I thought, ah, that's interesting.
Okay.
Just the last bit there,
I had cracking up again.
I wonder if it's the network.
Okay, that's not good.
Give me a sec, and I am going to,
I'm going to double check.
I just, I think it's on my side,
but I'll just check what,
yeah, let's do some checks on back in a sec.
You won't know this,
because we'll do 28 silence.
Right, how's this sounding?
That's fine, it's just occasionally there's a glitch.
And I am serving the media files
from this internet connection,
so sometimes maybe somebody is downloading the file,
and it's affecting.
So can you two secs,
I just want to bring up a dashboard?
Yeah, always.
Yeah, nothing major.
Three megabits per second on a gigabit interface
that she can call something.
Okay, well, the dashboard openable will continue on.
Yes, well, what I just did there was,
I switched off the VPN on my router,
just in case there was any blips there.
So that's when I could chuck it out,
and then I had to come back in.
You might want to record again, though.
Record again?
Yeah, you're not recording.
I'm recording locally.
Ah, okay, good.
So no, no, no, no, no.
That's blip.
Okay, you're doing the proper link.
Okay.
The following day,
and, you know,
where other people would have edited all that stuff out,
I feel like, you know,
behind-the-scenes stuff is what drives the algorithm,
so I'm going to leave it in.
Dave and Mr. X turn over a new leaf.
It's a leafy day in StudioN.
Many of these puns can you put into a show, Dave?
And it is another one of Dave and Mr. X having a charter.
Yeah, I mean, to be honest,
I got it straight away,
so I think I remember Dave talking about his electric car,
and I thought, oh, no, he's got a leaf, isn't it?
This is too much.
Yeah, exactly.
No, I enjoyed it.
I enjoyed the whole chart.
Thankfully, it wasn't all about the car.
It was quite the only listening to it,
though, in November,
and then talking about the upcoming on-camp.
That did give me a shock.
It was a good show.
I love this show.
And it's the first show that has been recorded in,
and posted in Sturio.
So we have now switched to Sturio by default on the Hitchcock feed.
I wonder how many people have noticed or even care.
So they wanted to see if audio separation
would work that Dave is on one side and Mr. X on the other.
And the point is,
it wasn't very clear in this,
but in the next episode,
they're going to try more separation, I think.
Let's see.
Oh, okay, interesting.
I didn't know that myself.
So, yep, every day is a school day.
I did like actually the fact that they did one of the things
they discussed,
and it broke me back memories,
was the inkjet printer.
And the problems used to have with the old inkjet.
You didn't use them for a week in the Blin and things.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
So, FXB says using Witterin,
which is WTTR.IN.
I'm still listening to the rest of the episode,
but one thing struck me during the gentleman's conversation
about getting weather reports output from Witterin.
I've used the service for a few years,
another good look through the docs.
Dave mentioned text to image to convert Witterin reports
output text into an image file,
but there's actually no need.
They read me on the project says
and link GitHub to the Witterin.
If you simply append the .pmg to the end of the requested URL
for the desired report location,
the service will return .png image of the text.
It would otherwise return.
Good show folks.
And Dave, more to response to this.
Saying thanks, FXB.
I had forgotten about the ability to create images
directly from Witterin.
I did use it for a while and it was good.
Then something went wrong and the service stopped
being able to make images.
It was a while ago,
so I don't remember the details very well.
I think when using the appropriate URL,
you got back an error message
and the request failed.
The state prevailed for many weeks as I recall.
I think it was then I looked for an alternative
and started using text image.
I was text I-m-g.
And once that worked,
I didn't bother to check to see if the mechanism
you describe was back up and running.
I will review my weather script.
However, finding text I-m-g was a bonus
that I'm using in other places,
as I said in the show,
so I'm going to keep using it.
Glad you enjoyed the show, Dave.
Cool, stop.
The following day,
we had privacy is not hiding
from the reserve queue.
And some guy in the internet argues
that privacy is not hiding.
I don't know if I could agree with this more,
but I don't think I can.
And Tim J says,
big tech is watching you.
Very well said.
If somebody claims they don't care about privacy
because they've got nothing to hide,
ask them to unlock their smart phone
and let you borrow it for a half-nour.
Yeah.
It was, yeah, he is unsurprisingly
as many people have,
so many strong opinions.
I have to confess,
it made me think of one of my mates
and I don't really know if you want to
just know,
maybe I should actually incorporate it as a...
Go on ahead.
I think, yeah, you go with Tim.
It was just what made me actually think of was,
one of my mates,
he went away and a son was in the house,
he just asked him,
is what's your mind going to the house
for keeping a watch out for?
What are we?
I think they'll wait for a month,
for kind of five.
And someone, yeah.
And he got the corpse coming to the door.
And he said, they said,
we think you've got something to do
with dodgy stadios.
Can we come in and search the house?
And the guy says,
look, this isn't my house.
This isn't my parents' house.
You can come and search mine all you want.
But this is my parents' house.
Of course, the problem was the corpse took this
as being instant,
you're hiding it in here.
So, of course, the problem was,
instead of just letting them search,
which they probably would have been seen okay.
There's nothing we'll go.
They went to get a court order and ripped the house apart,
ripped everything,
the walls apart,
the floating up, everything.
Of course, the guy had to come back,
and he had to admit to his parents that the corpse
that he didn't rip the place up.
So, to be too militant,
I think, on your rights,
can't be only dangerous as well.
I'm not saying you're not entitled to your rights,
just be witty,
that kind of attitude,
hand backfire.
Oh, well.
Would they not have to repair all that damage?
I don't know how that went.
I know he did try and take a general legal route,
but it was because they had the search warden
was a complete,
was from search everything,
because it's in the interest of public safety
or something.
I don't think they actually had to.
He did try, I know that.
Yes, yes, yes.
The following day,
brief introduction to myself by Kingsie,
using Debbie and testing rolling releases
into amateur radio.
It's got a very busy life all in all.
Who took the last comment?
You or I?
I'm happy to do it.
This was at Peter Patterson,
comment on Kingsie's introduction show.
Kingsie, thank you so much for taking the time
out of your busy life to give us your introduction show.
My own workplace of God's pantry,
food bank, Lexington, Kentucky,
is a Microsoft software shop.
So I understand,
as my day is spent on outlook,
Excel, Word, and Navision.
Have I said that right?
Navision, don't you know what that is?
Good, yeah.
Hence, like you,
I love coming home to my Linux systems
after a year of point releases with Linux Mint,
I discovered Solus and later PCOS,
which are both rolling release distros,
looking forward to getting to know you more and made.
My own introduction show
shall be officially released next Wednesday.
HPR 4258.
Very good.
And you silence there at the end.
Remaining to use your coffee.
Okay, that's fine.
No bother, because you're not breaking up at all.
It's obviously an issue with my own.
Okay, I don't see anything on my router.
It's fast asleep.
I don't see any gesture on,
a mumble.
I'm not sure it's you,
because I had this recording
and interview during the week as well.
So it could be a me thing.
Obviously, we will see.
Cake, money, money, cake, money, money,
cake.
Operator talks about web server monitoring
and financial tracking.
I never know what operator has gone
to throw at us for the given day,
but this one was interesting.
Services for monitoring to see whether a server is up
and also financial tracking
and money monitoring sites
for getting discounts on ISPs and stuff like that.
Yeah, it was quite interesting.
I mean, I totally got the point
when he said, if you don't pay for something,
you're the product.
Yeah.
But then he said, if you do,
you may well be the product as well.
But I never thought of that.
Absolutely.
I almost want to cancel any payment subscriptions on God.
But yeah.
Yeah, good show.
And probably more relevant to people's stateside.
So I don't think we have a lot of those services here.
It's like, yeah.
Maybe we do, maybe we don't.
The website monitoring, though, was useful.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And another one from the archive,
from the reserve queue, as I said,
we did burn up quite a lot of shows,
reserve shows.
And we haven't got any in to replenish them.
And we have free slots coming up as well.
So guys, yeah, this is not a drill.
Please send in shows.
Podcast recommendations.
Lots of Ahuka in this.
Some huge, no surprises to me.
The Doctor Who podcast.
Sherlock Holmes podcast.
Astro astronomy.
Astronomy cast.
Easy for me to say.
But a good episode.
And there's a whole series of these where he basically gives the podcast.
Tells how often it comes out.
Just grows it.
What he gets out of it.
What he doesn't get out of it.
It's great.
Good tips.
Yes.
And in fact, I was telling my own son about this.
He was actually quite interested in some of the history stuff.
He loves history.
So he's quite actions and some of the history ones.
So it's a thank you to Ahuka for giving him something else, doesn't he?
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
And the next day we had a bird's and a feather talk
about O.L.F.
where a lion and a taj.
Speaks nonsense and make each other to make to get other people to make a show.
And what was great about this was the guys had a bird's and feather session for however long it was.
And then the first half was them recording the text that we heard.
And the second half was them posting the episode and actually posting it.
So it was like, take it from here and post it.
So brilliant, brilliant episode.
Yeah.
That was one of those ones you'd almost wish was actually recorded for a video as well.
Yeah.
Because you know, it was, you watched them go in and it's lit.
And I'm going, look, guys, it's not difficult.
You know, it's, it's basically what you do just in a different way.
It's what you send out every, every month, but just not totally in a different way.
And I was thinking somebody was asking a question and taj would answer.
And then I will get to the clarification just exactly what I was saying.
Oh, but you missed it.
Oh, okay.
They got it.
But they missed it.
Right.
Okay.
Fantastic.
The guys know the community.
This is great.
This really, this cheered me up.
No end this month and getting the activity around getting solo spider in also cheered me up.
And also the matrix channel people help from each other out and prove their audio also cheer me up.
No end this month with regard to the health of the community.
So good.
Sometimes you feel like you're the only one at the at the call phase.
And then you know, this was like the lights were on and you could see the whole team chipping away, chipping away, chipping away.
Great work.
Anyway, I said the suspense.
Because the last bit of the show was this then is going to switch to his computer and then it cuts off.
And what?
Great episode.
You just said posted, but we were all thinking.
I was like, did you stop?
And I go, what are we doing?
Ah, they must have posted this show, right?
Okay.
And then Taj the next day.
So the next day, no, a few days later, says resolution.
And then I proceed to edit and upload the podcast in front of a crowd in like 10 minutes.
Quick and dirty like which explains why the audio sucks.
Well, it was fine.
It's just Taj is an audio file.
So five.
Never be happy with audio quality.
And then when you go says future shows, I haven't heard from Murph since Northeast Linux Fest.
I look forward to his next shows, explaining what you've been up to for the past decade or so.
Thanks for advocating for HPR, gentlemen.
Yes.
You're here standing ovation for the ads.
Absolutely.
Yes.
Movie review of the art of a squirrel.
On this numpty again.
Come on.
Seriously.
No, it's just the way I worked out.
And this is a response to some guy in the internet show, which was episode 4223, which in itself was a response to the link slowcast review of the art of a squirrel.
And I was trying to listen to the next show in my feed on the way in.
I was listening to this on the train as you do.
And I was.
And I know what you're going to say as you record an episode.
Yes, yes, I should.
But then that would be very better.
Well, I kept trying to, you know, listen to the next show in my queue and kept having to stop because I was thinking about what you were saying in your episode.
So very talk provoking.
So I may actually have to record a response to this.
Oh, so you are going to your response to the response of a response of response.
May have to.
I said, I may have to.
I said, well, I don't like getting into opinions because it's very much me.
So I may have to rewatch it again, because I watched the movie and it is since what I thought it was.
And now I'd like now I've had time to think about it.
I think I'll go back and watch it again and then do maybe review.
So it was shorter time with one thing and another at the moment.
No, yeah, totally.
Totally understandable there.
But we did get one comment on that.
And it's by Peter Patterson, Solar Spider.
So watch the Artifascar last week.
And when I saw your show in the future feed, not reading of that whole link.
Link included.
Interesting that I first encountered Lance Henrichsen as Bishop in Aliens playing an Android and AI.
The movie has major shades of bicentennial man with AI out living its creator.
It also does not hold back and describe in the predatory nature of some of mankind that plays on and the so-called weaker younger Persians.
Maybe we do need such oversight to corral and capture such monsters among us.
Yeah, I think I need to comment on that episode.
Okay.
Yes.
No, I was only just going to say if anybody hasn't watched it.
I think I say it at the start of the thing.
But please don't watch.
Don't listen to my episode if you want.
That's probably the free one, because I comment on the whole movie.
And if I was commenting, it would also be like spoilers from from top to toe.
But I don't think that would actually take away from it.
Really?
Well, you know what?
I'll record an episode.
I hate it.
I hate that I've now just added more to Nathan Box.
Okay.
You clearly aren't working enough this month, can you?
Yeah, exactly.
Who's that buddy at Christmas?
I don't know.
Aster.
Aster.
Although I have some house renovations to do for the Christmas period, physical, physical stuff, you know, actual engineer.
Introduction.
And I need to check now.
Introduction and history of using computers.
I saw the spider, the much bugged by Archers 72, Mark Rice, the local, deadly, heavy.
And of course, Lucky Boy, Alexander, who bugged him, bugged him into coming and doing a show.
It's great.
Great stuff.
Have a good show at all.
Exactly.
I see no, had we not bugged?
There you go.
We wouldn't have had this fine show.
And yeah, so if there's anybody out there who's just not quite convinced that they have to regret that they should record a show, keep bugging them and eventually it'll come.
That's the moral of the story.
Yes, I did.
I did chocolate.
I said it to, you know, the day I says, I love the fact you call everybody the username and the real name.
And you can say to me, Kevin, aka, Kevin, that made me chocolate.
I'm very good, very good.
Uh, David Lee, the broadcast says, welcome to the HBR family.
Hi, Peter.
So good to hear you on Hackebobwe Radio.
I hope this is the start of many shows from you given how close you are to the other podcasting communities.
I've heard bits of your story in various forms over the years, but it was incredibly interesting to hear the whole story from start.
Thanks for sharing.
I wonder if you'll stay true to form and go back to episode one of HBR or even today with the techie.
300 episodes that immediately proceed HBR and work your way forward.
No pressure there at all.
Looking forward to the next one.
And this comment, too, is by present arms.
I love this podcast with my friend Peter.
I've learned a lot.
And Archer 72 also says, welcome to HBR.
Hi, Peter.
This was a great first show done with just a mobile recording and upload the sound quality is very good.
Nothing done in post.
So ties would be proud.
Looking forward to hearing about God's pantry food bank.
And now it was always started.
Now it all was and how it all was started because I can't read.
Archer 72 mark says to the match show.
Yes, also the first comment from Peter there.
I do hope so.
I do hope so.
And Henry Kerman had another show on why we need to digitize photos.
And Peter saw the spider himself said, thoughts behind digitizing photos.
Henry, thank you for a topic provoking show in why we digitize photos.
It does make us think of the methods we use for the processing and storage of these precious memories.
I'm on an age where I have multiple boxes of prints sitting in boxes in the back cupboard.
And one day really need to get sorted and stored digitally.
And eventually everybody has really.
Absolutely.
No, I didn't think about this.
I was listening to it yesterday on the way to work.
We, yes, we do have loads of photos stored digitally.
But there's actually concern me.
I was thinking how many people have them so that they're accessible by somebody else.
Majority of people must be on like Amazon Prime Photos, Google Photos.
I think Apple, I don't know what Apple Photos are called.
But you know, it's one that when you die and people lose access to your device.
Those pictures are lost.
No, I think it's actually so important to actually get a service where you know what's it called?
Is it image art or something?
Image, image.
It's sort of just almost like I don't turn to a self-hosted alternative to Google.
So everything's on a hard drive.
You're thinking it's so important for people to have that.
You say, look, there you go.
Here's the twin, I'm gone.
That's a, that's a requested show right there.
Possibly is.
Yeah.
I, I have started commenting on the mastodon feed.
And one thing that really struck me about this one was,
paraphrasing when I wrote, was that archivists take color photos of black and white images.
I thought that was very interesting.
In order to preserve everything related to the image.
It's fascinating.
I'm fascinated by archiving anyway, just as I buy the buy.
And this show really was right up my street.
You know, for me, show not a 4HPR show, if you know what I mean.
Yeah, I actually was really interested when we spoke about the,
I loved almost like the week in a legal caveat.
Don't blame me if you ruin your negatives.
It looks like you've talked about it in the last one.
But I was completely unaware that scanning software by default has a fixer built in
so that, you know, if something is curved, it tries to correct it.
I did not know that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I've asked him as well to do more on the physical hardware setup.
I know he mentions it in both episodes.
But some photos and maybe walking through the,
they are now well, take this and I put it in here and it's, you know,
just physically walking us through it would also be good.
A bit like how Mr. X replaced his battery in this radio.
Okay.
Um, the golden age of science fiction.
And this is a hooker.
And, yeah, of course, it's a look at the hairliest, early history of science fiction,
focusing on the golden age roughly a decade from 1939 to 1950.
And I think Shulesvarne is turning this grade to hear that commented.
Yeah.
I must have listened to this one on the way over today to work.
And again, I love fantasy generally anyway.
So quite interesting.
Although, it's funny how things can really stick in your head.
He mentioned about HG Wells.
And I studied a few of his in school.
And it's amazing how even though it's a subject I love.
How was it?
Has a lot to answer for.
Right.
To this day, don't read HG Wells because I was serious.
I'm not reading them for me.
I remember we got Silas Mariner as a book three for one of our years.
And yeah, I was actually a good book.
And I went home and did what I normally do with a book, which is like read it in a few
days, few hours.
And it was the worst thing you could have done because of the whole year.
You had people reading it out one line at a time.
I was like, this is the most painful thing.
You ruined the book.
Oh, they totally ruined books.
I mean, it's the way I don't know.
Like I've reccomend with Ireland, but certainly in the UK, they just drag the back end.
It's like, look, do I have to, do I really have to write my thoughts over?
He went out to do it and walked to the end of the garden.
There's no office, a little philosophical thing about that.
He literally just went out to do it and walked the end of the garden.
Yeah.
What was the tone?
What was the meaning?
Yeah.
Okay.
But I think there are a lot more chill now than they used to be.
As a teacher, I'm not so sure.
Okay.
No, I enjoyed this whole thing.
And I must have been.
Jules Verne has been one of these authors.
I've been meaning to get into.
I just never have to be honest.
But, you know, he, I hope he's inspiring me to look at a lot of kind of stuff that I previously had kind of passed over.
Yeah.
And that's a good thing.
I think I really wasn't too, you know, we can get quite, we can get a lot of science fiction in longer.
But I'm from Oxford, but that's the closest term.
And I was like a huge Azimov ham.
And I recently went back and reread everything from Azimov.
And I, it's amazing how enlightened I've become in the intervening time.
I got, okay, that was definitely written in the 60s.
And this was definitely written in the 70s.
Yeah.
Science fiction is a reflection of the times that it's written.
And I think it's where I'm going with that.
Oh, totally.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's amazing not going back to the older stuff and you're thinking, what would have been, you know, obviously,
futuristic and stupid at the time.
It's like, no, this is pretty dated now.
Yeah, but not even that is just the attitudes towards going on in the attitudes to various relations and stuff.
And I think you have to, I think you have to accommodate that if you were willing to read older books.
You know, you can't just put it straight down and say, this person's an assortment, this person's an eraser.
It was just probably the attitude of the times, which you're not seeing the attitude of right.
It's just you have to call, accommodate for that.
You really do.
Yeah.
It's, I must say, my egg of the Christy, love egg of the Christy as well.
And now I'm going, okay.
Yes.
Perhaps, perhaps not.
Yeah.
Okay.
Artifascar, I'm going to leave open.
I don't want to come back to that.
So we had some other comments on previous shows.
So I'll come back now, Kevin, to the HVR community news page.
And there was a Kevin O'Brien that I just think is best by myself.
So I see Peter Preston, solo spider is going back listening to older shows.
And this was episode one, three, two, two.
Fantastic.
Find in the tags.
I was, I was actually attending OLF 2013.
That's cool.
I went with my good friend Warren Myers and a few from the then blue grass log.
He spoke at OLF 2023 on Syslog for fun and profit.
It was a fun time and talking in the conference, but also been a volunteer from first aid team.
It's hard to say that there were no major incidents that required my attention.
Did not attend many of the talks, but did enjoy visiting the vendor area.
And remember visiting the Libral for the booth.
So it is possible that I met Kevin in person, Kevin and person.
I still have a stuffed canoe that I want at the lottery.
It sits next to talks.
Thanks for the memories.
I need to make more.
Fantastic.
Absolutely.
And he's continuing.
He does seem to be actually going down to the normal.
He's going through the room.
Because this is episode one, six, four, two.
First time I don't camp by all.
And Peter was posted.
I'll then ten years later you attended OLF campus, a member of Tuxjam.
And he a short walk with my son, the love book.
Alex, Alex was so young as two and a half years old.
This might be a couple of years after I pause listening to the podcast backlog.
I need to get back to that.
The mention of the Duffer cast was a blast from the past two.
And I listened to every published episode.
I'm sure how many got lost in time with a lot more Dave.
That was the first run.
This was a fun first HBR for you.
And then HPR2503, my journey into podcasting by the love bug.
Peter comments, Dave, what does your dad want?
Really, really want.
Oh, I did not know that about him.
Very interesting news.
One of my claims in life is that I have listened to the first bug cast show
although I did so in 2021.
The year that George introduced me to you all.
Since then I have listened to over 50% of bug cast shows right now I am on a pause.
Just after Alexandra was born.
Thank you for being an inspiration to many, including myself to get into podcasting.
We are all part of a chain of good peer pressure.
So glad that you know.
I'm so glad to know you made and happy to call you a beer drinking buddy in the aftershoes and pod crawl.
Fantastic.
He also left a comment on the random or IO Linux Fest two of 18 podcast roundtable by Taj.
So much wonderful banter indeed.
This is why I miss going to such key conferences.
Because there's always center around food.
I really need to visit the market now.
I didn't know anyone local when I first attended OLF in 2023.
Therefore, I did not know existed.
Would be interested to see if there's still have a yak burger.
You'll have to take me there during OLF 2025.
Thank you for most entertaining show.
Just by the way, there are.
He's not posting them all at the one time.
So there's a few days between each of these posts.
Yes, I do keep going.
He was very busy in the month of November.
So HPR 3315.
So this is actually he should just record all these comments and submit them as a show himself
rather than have a nose read them out.
Or we could read them are played at the point where it comes to reading in mind.
Okay, we'll do it this month, right?
But next month he can just record a common show on the HPR episodes.
And then it's a show.
Absolutely.
I'll message that to him directly.
Thanks.
So this one is Tesseract optical characteristic recognition.
I show by yourself.
So Ken, I was talking without your 72 slash mark today.
Of course I was mentioned that I use Tesseract OCR
for my mission assist work.
And he informed me of your show.
Mission assist is a UK based charity.
I volunteer for them as a digitization keyboard
or receiving PDF scans of Bibles and other books from people groups all over the world
and type in the character text into a structured text file.
And it includes a link there.
Tesseract is a wonderful tool that helps me with a lot of processes
obtaining a text file and then working directly on it.
I do plan talking about this work as an HPR show.
Given my current work with normal vice medical needs,
it will probably be in the new year.
And he does leave a quick caveat comment apologies for the misspelling of Tesseract
in my previous comment.
I can never remember that name of that.
Every time I go back to it, I have to go to my HPR episode to find out for search
at OCR.
Find out whether the name was in the episode and then paste it in.
And then I can find the back script study.
He also commented on using the open source OCR
to digitize my mom's book by Delta Ray.
Greetings Delta Ray.
So please to meet you.
My own experience of Tesseract OCR is via my voluntary work at Mission Assist.
Mission Assist is a UK based charity.
Can you not just read this?
That's what I'm just thinking.
No, he's copied and paste.
Ah, he's coming in.
Okay.
So I'll skip that.
Tesseract is a wonderful tool that helps me with a lot of the processing,
upstanding text from files and working directly through it.
Since I run KDE, I use spectacle to highlight an area of the PDF.
I want to convert to a P&D file with Tesseract to load.
A lot of the scans we receive are not exactly straight,
often in columns, having marks and bleed them through on the other side.
So not always a straight forward OCR process.
I save the files with chapters and verse reference in the titles.
Once I have a set of P&G files in my allocated chapter,
I simply run Tesseract to profile to create a text file.
I then use cast to collect the text files into one file to work on.
Your show was really more about using bash,
especially the grip command to process your project.
I learned a lot from that alone thanks for the education.
Check your HP on profile.
Not surprised to find you're the guy behind CLI magic.
I didn't follow you on Twitter, but left after the buyout,
I'm glad to know that you're mastered on,
and I followed your account today.
I didn't plan recording my own show about using Tesseract
as I volunteer at Mission Assessed,
but give my current workload that won't be open until 2025, etc.
Question for Peter that I'd like to answer.
If you're scanning Bibles, no offense.
This is a genuine question.
Do we not know what the text of Bibles were?
Why do we need to scan the different versions?
What is the purpose?
But I look forward to hearing an answer to that in your episode.
Do you know what I mean when I'm asking that question, Kevin?
Yeah, I get what you mean.
You see, because I'm trying to be some digital versions anyway.
Why scan another one?
That's true, right?
Yeah, and like, it was the boom.
But that hopefully will be answered in the episode.
Yes.
And Peter goes on to say in HP are 4106,
so at least one of the fours when I would get near.
This seriously, this is an episode,
just because you know,
if the comment exceeds a thing,
this seriously is a show unto itself.
And you can call it as the month in review,
by podcasting, listing in review.
Okay, carry on, because there's a lot of these.
Yes.
Right.
So this is my tribute to feeds by Henry Cameron.
Pleased to meet you, Henry, although I have heard of feeds,
especially on SS, I have not really utilized that system
for yesterday.
Archer 72, often mentions newsboard,
which is a reader for the terminal.
He's sitting as Android phone.
Yesterday, I investigated my own options
and went into INU reader,
which is both a website and an Android app.
I'll already set up the following feeds.
HP are, HP are radio comment feed,
the bunkastog feed, Tuxjam organ cut,
and OLF conference.
Can I actually collect that?
No, Tuxjam organ cut.
There's Tuxjam on cut.
So if you're looking for an NP3,
no other cut, it doesn't exist.
It's amazing how big, or SS is,
how important SS is,
and how Firefox took it out,
Mozilla took support out of the browser.
I think that was a very, very poor move.
Yes.
I added it back using the extension
called Awesome RSS,
which when you go to any website
that's got an RSS feed,
it'll give you the RSS feed links
as part of the browser.
But that was a deliberate kill
by a certain company to unparatize RSS costs.
It's such a powerful hands control
to the person themselves.
And that makes it very difficult to generate revenue.
Or to track, actually,
revenue can be generated,
but it makes it difficult to track people.
Or are you?
You have to do 4129.
I don't know.
Okay, yes.
How I find Hacker Republic Radio,
Hendrick, this again,
the Silver Spider, Hendrick,
we have a commonality with Linux Mint.
Around that distro from 2008 to 2016.
I was a regular listener to the Mintcast.
In fact, I officially represented them
in 2013 when I attended the Ohio Linux Fest.
Don't really remember HPRB mentioned back then,
but that's probably just my memory.
It was not until I joined
taking coffee with Miwi,
then in Telegram,
but I heard more about HPRVO Geospart and others.
We, he led me to the broadcast,
and then to Toxjam,
probably both podcasts heavily mentioned on HPR,
but I only occasionally checked out the show.
I really was not,
it was really not until I met
Arthur 72 Mark Rice in person
in the hospital drama room
that I knew I really needed to check out HPR more.
He leaves and breathes from HPR.
Now I have a show under my belt
and I'm here to stay.
Thanks. Take care, mate.
Right.
And then this is a comment on HPR4132.
You random talks of the future of HPR.
So again, he's copy and pasted that first bit.
So I knew Mark wanted to be at OLF,
but could not make it due to a car accident and care.
It's also the same reason
that he and I go together in person
despite living 30 miles apart
and chatting over mastodon for over a year.
Mark asked me if I knew Taj
and the U random podcast
to which I responded
that I did not.
So tonight I checked out Taj's name,
Taj's name link on HPR
and found the discussion show.
An excellent way to connect
the U random and HPR dots for me.
My route to HPR,
this sounds very familiar.
My route to HPR
podcasters such as the love bug,
from the broadcast of Tuxjam
and Kevian McNallu,
Tuxjam as well as
Geospar from Technofe.
Kevys Teenage Sunlucky Boy played a large part too.
What connects these together is telegram
and also mastodon.
It was this group that encouraged me to record
and upload my own introduction episode.
HPR4258.
Currently my HPR discussions have been mostly on telegram,
especially joining the group there
and via mastodon with the HPR tag.
Maybe I should join the mailing list.
Not a fan of following a podcast on YouTube.
I mostly do that for church services,
not for discord,
which I am really not that keen on
and dropped a while back.
What I see keeping this
loose community together is a central website
of personal contacts.
Thanks for the history and insight
to what HPR means to you,
to the U random guys.
By the way, I did laugh
that you have a Facebook page
which I did join.
Talk about being a popular media.
I am hoping to record more shows
but that comes from
good friends,
personal peer pressure.
By the way, maybe next year
Mark and I shall attend OLF
for me the last time was 9 years ago
in 2015.
And he comments
into Dr. Who.
Growing up in Scotland,
Dr. Who was part of my culture.
First doctor was John Partree.
I drifted in and out of watching
classic Dr. Who,
but have been catching up on brickbox
when I moved to Kentucky, USA,
in 1999.
My wife and I enjoy watching Christopher Eccleston.
The ninth doctor,
he remains our favorite.
But when I was watching the Amazon Prime Max
Disney Plus,
Dr. Who still remains a large part
of my culture.
I thank you for introducing
the introduction for the film.
That's all everyone else.
And HPR 4220,
how Dr. Who began.
This is still Peter, by the way.
Who got wonderful summary
of Dr. Who and how it all started.
I agree that an adventure
in space on time
is an excellent
event for us to watch.
The doctor who show
does take a lot of twists
and turns along its long history
and continues to do
with the latest incarnations.
Siltra remains through to the concept
of the doctor
and the hardest having adventure.
On August 24,
he comments
No, to your spark,
comments.
I was just listening
to this on my morning walkies
and I realized
why I don't podcast regularly
as I hit the sound
of my own voice.
Great interview, Ken.
All identical show for microphone
under your nose.
There we go.
And Peter comments
on episode 4236
in the video.
And Peter comments
on episode 4236
History of Nintendo.
Lucky boy Alexander
Team Guy.
Thank you for giving us
your Nintendo.
I learned much.
It will probably not surprise
you at all to learn
that I have never owned a gaming console.
Well, not a proper one.
I have a Walkman
Castile cassette player
from Alba.
That has a version
of the game.
I'm going to read it back
in the day and say
it sligs its
at our mom's house.
My nephew Nathan
enjoys his DS.
Ariana did own a switch
but gave it to my niece start
in 2022 just before we met
with you in Inverness.
Keep on enjoying your gaming mate.
And John Kirkwood
left a comment
like to play
with a virtual boy.
There's a fantastic video game
in Malaga
Spain.
That has a working virtual boy.
You can't strap it to your head
and move around
as the headset is security attached
to your stand.
But you can put your eyes
in the headset
and experience 90s VR.
The museum is called
We accidentally stumbled
across this while over in spin
on holidays from the museum
last year.
And sorry for butchering
Bethany.
Next one, HPR
4238.
Oh, I was wondering how many hell
on this would take.
Snaps are better than flat packs
by some guy on the internet.
So comment two.
Eliot B.
comes down to provenance.
I need to be sure that my software is coming
from a trusted source.
I originally favoured
Apple images because I could get them
directly from the developers.
However, updating Apple images
and integrating them into
application launchers is a manual process.
Snaps aren't perfect.
They are slow to install
when compared to AppGate.
They consume a lot of disk space
and they clutter the
developers directly manage their own software
on the Snaps, Store
and FlatHub.
Most of the App images
I use are also available
directly from the original developers
on Snaps Store.
So I migrated to Snaps.
There are too many flat packs
managed by random people
and not enough verified flat packs.
I avoid Snaps that aren't managed
by either canonical
or the original developers.
And there was another comment.
There was actually two comments.
There was more than two comments.
Snaps. And before I read that,
I just want to say for the person
who is expecting to see the comments here,
we don't tolerate
target of the text
against individuals on HPR.
So I deleted your comments
spam.
And also I have a fair idea
who it is that's doing this.
So this is your opportunity
to change your behavior
and be respectful of the community.
Thank you very much.
Anyway, in part all says,
Snaps are indeed better
than flat packs.
Another great episode, very interesting.
Of course, Snaps are better
but do not forget,
flat packs are also better than Snaps.
A bolt are better than App images
and even though opportunities
are better than both Snaps
and flat packs.
Yeah, that's very much.
Absolutely.
In the token that shoe was recorded.
Yes, exactly.
I think some going into this
would definitely agree with that.
And Spotify is on HPR.
Our HPR is on Spotify.
So I also agree with that.
I was at any stage.
Do you want to fight an HPR?
Did HPR take over a very big
section in the last month?
Fine. We have more content
to play up.
Right, then.
So HPR
0870
Oh, let's go back to 2011.
Computer Memories.
By Delta Ray. So this is,
this comment is by Peter Patterson.
Thanks Delta Ray.
Thanks Delta Ray for your
computer experience broadcast
on your 2011 shoe.
Going by your dating,
I believe I am maybe
about a decade older than you
at age 57 now.
My first computer was
in 1983.
An Oric 1 16K British
based 6502
machine.
Our first
commonality in the timeline
is an Amiga I owned a 1200
and also a CDTV
fun machines.
I did add an internal HD
to the 1200.
I still have it, but
it's not been powered in many years.
My American wife and her brother
co-owned a Commodore 128.
It currently sits
in my computer room covered
along with a 1084 monitor.
Two floppy
disk drives and a printer.
It's a great system
and one I should really
fire up again.
I did have some experience with
an Amstrad PCW
8256
and a PCW
8512 that my parents owned
for their business.
Thanks for the memories meet.
So why is your return to
his wife as my American wife?
Does he also have a Scottish wife?
Possibly I am not
commenting.
I was actually thinking
of what do you have?
1800 for
1884 monitors.
That's a lot.
All of which should be
a show.
We are never doing that again.
So the spider.
That was brutal.
You need to leave shortly.
If you need to drop off,
it's fine.
I can continue on.
Let's mosey down
to the discussions for this month.
So there was hanging up
the mock by Dave Morris.
So
and it was
in response to my
comment
Dave said,
thanks Ken.
I'm a bit of a loss for words
and responding to your great message.
I knew there was an
unusual guy called
Ken Falan who was behind
this.
I found him to be a generous
warm hearted dynamic
individual when we met
the Liverpool on
camp at 2012.
I also met a number of
HBR community members
that year.
I found myself a green
join in with the upcoming
community news show.
It wasn't long before I found
myself helping out with the
community and generally being
bored.
Before long, I was being kept busy
by doing stuff for HBR
which was far better.
Hanging out with Ken at various
on-camp meetings was
a delight as
where our
FOS demo visits.
We both attended for a few years.
I certainly consider
Ken to be a close friend.
I was delighted to meet him
many of them at the camp
and other events.
I have recorded HBR episodes
with several of them over the years
and it's been a great time.
I will not be leaving HBR
community as I said in my
email and
may well go to
on-camp the next on-camp.
I hope to continue the HBR
journey for many more years
but as a civilian.
Dave, thank you very much
for your time.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
I found myself cutting back a little as I get older.
You start to think in terms
of what you most want to do
with the time left to you
or maybe that's just me
regards Kevin.
And Dave responds
with thanks for the kind words Kevin
it's not just you
though these thoughts
are in my mind to Dave.
And then Dave
responded to the list
on archer 72
asked me to let everybody know that he is currently in hospital after a car accident.
framework for which he's had surgery. We've posted more details on mastodon with a scary
picture of his car. Best wishes for a speedy recovery.
Yeah, and Claudio has, Claudio M has responded. Whoa, I just saw the picture on mastodon and
it is a blessing that Archer 72 is still with us. That's for sure definitely something to be
thankful for this upcoming Thanksgiving season here in the US. Wish you a speedy recovery,
Archer 72, Claudio. And it was horrific. Oh, totally. I mean, that car. To be honest, yeah,
Claudio said it on the head. You're looking at the car, you're thinking no one, not likely,
something like that. No. Yeah. So I don't know how to follow that. There was a lot of
I think we need to take a few moments to say how much Archer 72 does for the community. He's a great
guy. He's him and some guy in the internet are now janitors on the matrix channel, part of my
evil plan to get them involved more, but softly, softly, and whatever you do, don't tell them.
And so great stuff. And God, that was a bit of a shock to see that. Oh, wow.
But lots of chats on the mastodon, lots of chats on the matrix. It was good to see Archer 72
making progress. A lot more progress is walking around and it's back home now. So that is
good news. Our thoughts and prayers for those of you who have been partaking that definitely go
to them. Absolutely. I'll do the thoughts. You can do the prayers. How about that?
Yeah, but definitely fine. But I think more than just those two.
Exactly. Exactly. But I will say, I'm not going to compare mine to anything like that. But one
thing I will say is when you are, you know, and you're in the hospital bed, and you really can't
do much. It's amazing how much just even people talking to you online and on the, you know,
from various chats and things, it just parks you up. So honestly, if you're thinking, oh,
I don't know what to say. You don't have to say anything specific. Just yarn. You know,
because it really does, you know, lift you up. That's good to your good device because I'm a bit
like, what do I say to them? God, that was horrible. Yes, you know, the end of conversation,
well, good. You had a bit of a whack too. How are you getting on? Sorry. My whack was nothing
compared to the, I'm pretty much recovered. Just the old hands that are taking their sweet old
time to recover. That's not like, yeah. And that there, that sort is why I went to computers because
I'm a technical engineer. I've had a know for a lot of close calls, you know, just being stupid.
Leave in the, you know, chuck key in the chuck of a lathe and it disappeared through the room.
Boom. Never did we see him again. Just bars going right past my head. And so I wouldn't have,
I wouldn't have survived. And yeah, there you go. Probably need to hear that. Oh, no. Actually,
I wish I could actually, I actually need you to come over to my load and actually emphasize
his importance of doing that dash stuff. And at times I say to look, you'd probably be sacked
if you walked away from that chuck, that lathe chuck in the dash thing. They just don't get it.
Yeah. Yeah. It's, and, you know, your app, even when you're young, like, those a few times where
I was going after us, you're okay. That was it. I, two inches further to the left. And I would have
been at, you know, I would have been local boy passes away in, in side circumstances in the newspaper.
But yeah, where are we? Bastard on shutting down their account. And we need to migrate.
This is from me, because I was hoping to move hacker public radio account from, so bots in space
where we had our master on account was shutting down. And there was a master on the bot,
which seemed like the ideal place to go to. So I was asking people if there was any help that
there could be given in order to move. Yeah. And we've got a response from John the
Skysprings, Terence Eden, Edenton's master on dot social has quite a few boards. He might
be in a position to help you. And also, I'll read the next one. So then you go too. And then also
we have got my mind's just come black. Yeah. David, it's from the Linux Linux,
another Linux links podcast. You know, you remember. And he says, I'm currently looking into
a master on dot bot to migrate a bot account, see explore dot master on dot bots for slash FAQ.
So I said, thanks guys for the feedback. The services we looked at were bots in space bots in a box,
which is a paid service. And I didn't mind paying for it. It was that there didn't see to be
that many people there. And I was kind of reluctant to go to a service, no criticism of the service
everything. That could shut down. Yeah. And then we had the activity bot, which was the turn
secret one. And we interviewed Terence on day two of Alcab. He's the park benches guy. And
he says himself, he has written some software that's a non-production locally hosted too,
which I was very interested in, but we have a lot of stuff going on and it will be another
thing to manage. And it's also non-production. And you also, I can't log in as the HPR bot character
and respond to my own posts. So that was out. Master on dot bot was a volunteer pay service,
but as lots of people found out, they are not responding to to requests. There was master on
dot social as well. But the HPR account was set up by somebody in 2017. They've never posted. And
it's, yeah, it's, yeah, it's basically the account has gone. And I didn't want hacker public. I
wanted to ask HPR specifically, you know, the three letters to make it easier for people to migrate.
And then somebody suggested your room as on the link is there on master. Now suggested info
sec.exchange. And I requested an account. And then basically got it. So that was that was where
we were at. Yeah, good. And Kevin O'Brien responded with glad it came in handy for you came.
And that was the migration. And David says he ended up migrating there as well.
And John springs. Did I not send out a message saying that we have migrated?
I thought you had, but it's not on the list. Yeah, maybe on what we're not into next month,
yes, of the time we're recording this, but otherwise on the list. Anyway, we are, we have moved to
to thingy. And I literally followed Kevin's instructions and listening to Kevin's, as Kevin says,
in the instructions, it'll probably take you less time to migrate than listening to the show.
I can testify to that. Other than the 10 minutes where it says wait five minutes and I
waited 10 minutes to be sure to be sure. It was absolutely for campaign. It was the most
painless thing migration I've ever done in my life. It was fantastic. And, you know, when you
design something, testament, design something to be migration ready from the word go. And
as soon as you finish the migration, you import, you list, you import, you know, and then
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. All the other people that
used to follow you start following you automatically as to switch the service. So the message goes
out and tells the old service that they moved. And there's presumably some sort of verification.
And then like within hours, I had 480 people that migrated to the new server.
Painless. Absolutely. Perfect. Yeah, and that's exactly what you want. You wanted to be as
hassle free as possible. You do, you do for sure. And then we had Dave's message, community news
next month, possibly his last. More work for me. So if he wants to help just doing the community
news show, like it's one show a month, 12 shows a year, that would be cool. The scripts and stuff
in place. And normally all I have to do is just walk up and Dave has the absolute page ready
for me. And we just talk. So even this month's show has all been Dave's work. So that's a thing.
And the final comment has been a community content distribution network where network has gone
live with three hosts. One is in the Netherlands here. My house, the other is in New Jersey,
Rooms server. And the other is on the IA network, which in itself is geographically dispersed.
And another location in the Netherlands will be added shortly. So requirements for hosting. So
this is basically old school stuff. HDR was always had always too much content to be mirrored.
So back in the day is to marry you. I marry your website, you mirror mine and you know,
it's a way of distributing the load. And we can do that now because in some places, not everywhere,
but in some places, fibers rolling out. And people have given me a bit of networks and make a
Raspberry Pi switch or a couple of super computers back in the days. It's a static site. It comes in.
Give me this file and it goes back out. And it's actually, I was concerned because,
you know, we were all worked for home and streaming video conferences during the day as well.
But because of the nature of RSS, it comes whenever, you know, people turn on the podcast. So there's
a little blip. There's a little blip. There's a little blip. There's very rarely like a big
sprue urge of stuff. It's kind of very random in the nature when people in whatever particular
time zone, you know, turns on the podcast feature in the morning and downloads. So it's, you won't
ring roses. So you need 24 hour, seven days a week service, fixed IP address, ideally IPv4 and IPv6,
unlimited bandwidth, fast, greater than half a gigabyte per second,
internet speeds, large storage, one terabyte or better. If you can go up to four, then you can do
the pull-money, all the flat files and the web files and stuff. If you only have a terabyte,
we can do the org feel, again, p3 and opus. You also need permission from your ISP to run a server.
And we as managers will need contact information where we can contact you if there's issues with
particular shows or stuff. And optionally, if you have a UPS. And the documentation is on the
wiki. So that's it for the threat. But if we go back to the show notes itself, there is any
other business, which I'll quickly go through as well, one second. So it's been a
month here at HBR towers. As we discussed on the mailing list, most of the time was taken
doing the migration to master, although the migration itself wasn't that time consuming.
But also the implementation of the mirror network for HBR community content delivery network.
If you're interested, some daily stats are available here. And let me go to here.
So on the first day, we had 9,783 downloads, second day, 8,351, next day, 8,395. So the spike
is probably me downloading from various different players at low testing. So you can expect that
about 8 points or in point 3, 8,4,000 episodes a day or files a day. Don't know what they are
really. Okay, summary of changes to the HBR repo. So Dave uploaded his tooling for processing
shows now on the GitHub repo, as he's handing over stuff. Ron has gone through that code as we
speak. We're finally getting around to creating the HBR documentation on the wiki and certain pages.
If you go to that, repo.analyst.net for slash HBR null cap. And then you'll see the HBR
documentation. And we've got places where HBR, so information about the CCDN and what you need.
More information will be coming there about how to set up a Apache server, how to install
Phil to ban, how to set your redirects, all that sort of stuff. HBR website design, we have this
open and it's literally a website design. So we got zero feedback on this design proposal, zero,
none. So that's, must mean everybody is totally 100% happy with it. And in future, there will be no
episodes about how shitty the HBR website is because perfection has already arrived.
Clearly, I mean, that's it. Nobody can complain when they were given the chance to, so nobody can.
Yeah, it's a typical teacher at this. Well, listen, basically, HBR, put up or shut up,
yeah, I want feedback on it. So please give me feedback. That's thing number one. Thing number
two, I need a whizzy wig editor that will produce HTML. It can be JavaScript in this case.
It can be something else. I don't want it to be big and bloated. It has to be small and
manageable because when you move away, I need to take it over. So if you're suggesting something,
it needs to be something that you're fairly confident. I can be bugging you for two years
above it. So therefore, rocks now and staple, rocks are that simple, not requiring all sorts of
weird languages, not requiring compilation and virtual environments. Small, simple, whizzy
wig editor for HTML, urgently needed. So two things there, urgently needed on the web design,
urgently needed on the whizzy wig editor. These are big things that are holding up,
holding up our changes and it's not something I can bring to the table because I can't design
my way out of a wet paper bag, let's be honest. No, and that's quite, that is a very special,
special subject, I would say, not a specialist, but it's something that not everybody can pick
up and do. I mean, it's so important because obviously, somebody comes to HPR first
single to see the website. So we want to make a big effort. What we saw from the whole discussion
and evaluation of what an exponential crisis that we had here in HPR was that people are not
coming to the main page to listen to the shows, they're coming to the main page to find out about
HPR project. So we need to be short and snappy, the HPR menus at the top. We've got a big splash
logo shown where cooler modern, we still need to maintain the H goes to host, the P goes to
comments and the R goes to the RS SV. Then there's going to be some text underneath that who we are,
what we do, short and snappy, HPR is community podcast, whatever the shows are committed,
but on the topic, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, that's a deal. And then I can
eyes swim names with recorded shows, schedule, subscribe, listen, whole series about. And then
just two blocks, latest comments and latest episodes. So the episodes can still be on a main page,
on an episodes page, but the main index page will be just have the latest 10 episodes.
That way, if somebody puts some sort of controversial thing, just when I'm about to go,
it's the damage is fairly limited, because I only think that's exposed to the main page
will be curated by the whole. So if somebody says, this is a show about the Fingit F word,
about F, whatever. And that's fine. A show about cursing would be interesting, you know, where it comes
from the taboos, why we, why people need, feel the need to curse, why people feel need not to curse,
why is it important, blah, blah, that's a show, no problem. However, editorially, we make sure that
that the feed part, because it's going to everybody in all the word, we make sure that that's
safe and sanitized, that is that standard operating procedure, but at least then that's not appearing
on the font page, because somebody needs to actively make a decision to go into that episode,
and by doing so, they're accepting the responsibility that there are being boys and girls and
everything in between. And then the comments there, so that's that's kind of the idea. And the style,
I kind of given what I think might be a nice style of explanation underneath. So comments on that,
if you don't comment, that's fine, go me assume that it's going to be cool and fine for the next 15
years, because that's the next time I'm going to update it. But what is a big thing is the
WYSIWIG editor, because Dave is going away. Dave has been doing an awful lot with the editing of
the show, and it's creating a HTML files, all that sort of stuff. And what we need to do now is
pass it back to the host with the role-blowning show, so that we can trust that the text is in
kind of the format that we wanted to be. And the idea there is that we're going to be changing,
let me go back to the text, documentation wiki, literally web design, retract, oh yeah, so
content in the really so useful resources is also there, so links to free culture websites,
and then requested topics. So if you have requested topics, I'm taking that out of the about
documentation and putting it onto the wiki page, because then you can just edit that page,
create an account, edit that page, and then we'll approve it, and then it's right there free to see.
There's also a list of information about podcasters and podcasting platforms, so that's something
that I promised ages to do, so if anybody has a particular podcaster or you're listening on Spotify,
as we mentioned earlier, and you want to adopt that, then please get in touch so that we can fill out
that this field from the upload form, if you type it in there, you can see it here in Spotify,
that field, you can see it there, if we improve the image, we'll get, if we fill in this additional
field, we'll get that stuff, so per podcaster, we can do that. Continuing on, the section on the workflow
will be changing shortly due to Dave's stepping aside, we will also need to distribute multiple
endpoints, all processing will happen first, and then all the text will be done at the same stage,
just prior processing, for this to work, we need to find a simple, manageable, what you see is
what you get editor that will produce same HTML, when the host upload the shows, there will also
need to be a new system to redistribute files from the origin to all the mirrors. Which does that
make sense? Yes, that does. I can't say I come, I want to get all this done over the weekend,
but yeah, totally makes sense. No, I mean, all that we're asking people to do is have a quick look,
if you've got any bit of web designer or advice on the web design, have a look, and see,
if you know of always a way to get your please get in touch, or if you know of somebody who knows
about this or just stuff, please get in touch, that's great. Other stuff that we did fixes that we
met, role met a change so that the day of the week is now available, it may seem like a small
thing, but it's a huge thing for me, which is, like this show will say, says now, hosted by HPR
volunteers on Monday, 2024, 1202, which is awesome. It's the small things. We fixed the RSS feeds to
show the explicit status. I have no idea why that warning message wasn't there. It was in the RSS
attributes, but it wasn't flagged as part of the text, but it now is. Fixed bug on the future feed,
with limited to just tensiles, so if those 20 in there, you only saw 10 of them, so that's now fixed.
Fixed status page typo, and following feedback on the scheduling guidelines, which are now on
the upload page, it was country victory, but now I emphasize, added some emphasize to say that
post some of them refer to the upcoming two weeks, and then the rest of them refer to after that.
And as I said, those will shout out to the people who are promoting HPR and helping people
out with audio issues. That's it this. You believe that being after that. Oh my god,
so the spider, I really hope I'm going to have a beer now, right? And you are not having that beer
tonight that you were going to have. Yeah, I will be having that one over here,
virtually. No, I would never deny the Scottsman to be here. Go have a beer, sir.
You can more say thank you very much. Yeah, no, no, no. I was like,
coasting in the wind, what's the point? Am I allowed to say that? Yeah, why not?
Well, okay. Anyway, if you say if you say that's fine, Kevin, thanks very much for stepping in,
trying to fill the big shoes to fill. I think I might be able to fill a corridor,
but there's no way I'm filling those shoes. I just simply can't. But thank you very much for
having me once again. And enjoy your evening. And tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Hacker. Public radio. And can you send me your recording? Thank you. Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
internet archive and rsync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released on
their creative commons, attribution 4.0 international license.
