Episode: 4149
Title: HPR4149: HPR New Years Eve Show 2023 - 24 ep 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4149/hpr4149.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:23:11

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4149 for Thursday the 27th of June 2024.
Today's show is entitled HPR New Years Eve Show 2023-24-2.
It is hosted by Ham Kimagoo and is about 112 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community comes together to converse.
So, have anybody done anything exciting this year,
or that's worth talking about on here,
or maybe bought something exciting likewise, let's say?
Well, last week, my partner and I went to Las Vegas for the first time.
We didn't get anything away.
But we did enjoy a nice time over there with some friends,
and just seeing the sights, and seeing all the mountains,
and everything.
The whole day, I'm having a lot of fun.
You said you say Las Vegas?
Yeah, mountains as well, that's good.
Yeah, and the weather over there is really nice too.
I mean, it was a little cold for this time of year, you know.
But the weather was nice and dry and everything.
You say Las Vegas, didn't hear that properly.
You say Las Vegas, didn't hear that properly.
Yeah, so Las Vegas, Nevada.
Okay, yeah, I will see you not being there.
I mean, I've been to Florida before,
and North Carolina Airport, if that counts or something.
I'm in England, so yeah.
Yeah, not Las Vegas, we're gambling.
That's what it's known for.
Pretty much.
I mean, it's funny, because you'll see a small machine
loving the airport, but I would say much more machines.
No, Vegas, the mountains.
If you say so.
It's just blew my mind down.
It's like, no, no, thank you.
Have whales for mountains, not too far away from here, actually.
You know, whales, whales, W-A-L-E-S.
You know, whales, W-A-L-E-S.
Not a whale, I can see now.
Yeah, I've had a whale, W-A-L-E-S.
I've heard of it, but I've never, never been there.
Yeah, so it's, because United Kingdom is really spits up
into England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.
Yeah.
So, why live is not actually that far away from whales?
It's, you know, about half an hour is a bridge,
and it goes across there and stuff, even.
It's not that far away.
Yeah, about half hour in a cow or train or whatever.
It's, I really isn't that far away.
But over in Wales, it has some really nice mountains.
Yeah, far away from here.
Some good mountains.
You can go hiking on and stuff.
And there's a hill, well, a hill, really,
but it's good, there's a good hill as well.
This is called Sugar Loaf, and then you've got like penny fan,
pan, and stuff like that.
Although last time I was up there,
I was in the wrong booths for hours and hours now,
isn't it?
Didn't do my towrari go doing that?
The wrong, the wrong walking boots.
And I'll sit and then I'll see Scotland.
That was quite a long time ago.
Now, in 2077, maybe.
Then Scotland also has, is known for mountains like
Stodens, Scotland, or the North Wales.
I need it either way.
Yes, Scotland's got mountains as well.
And, yeah, mountains can be quite nice.
More so if you can go skiing on them, actually.
But around here, you can't really go skiing on the mountains
because even if there is some snow here,
it's not really skiing, it's not skiing.
Yes, skiing I haven't done yet.
Maybe at some point I will, but at my age,
it might not be a wise thing to do.
I don't want to even ski.
How do you?
Anyway, I'm going to drop off for a little bit
and get some breakfast and see what else we need to get done here.
But I'll try and hop on later.
So, if by chance I don't catch you all,
at least before your new year comes in,
I wish you all would have a very happy new year.
For the 70s and 80s, even depending on what the health,
the general health is like, you know,
you've never been skiing.
Wow, no, no, skiing is great.
It's been a while.
The one I haven't done with snowboarding,
but I mean on ski slopes,
and maybe I'll see the snowboard as well,
and they seem to always love it.
And they're getting past the snowboard.
It's probably kind of more cool, actually,
to get snowboarding, because it's like, yeah,
where skiing is like, okay, yeah, good, nice,
but not really cool.
It's getting skiing, but snowboarding, like, yeah, woo!
As a go-past.
So, they want to figure out where the next place is.
I mean, there's a time and date.com, I think, and whatever.
Yeah, I'm still on a listening.
I'm kind of drifting in and out.
I've sometimes got my microphone on,
and sometimes it's laying on the desk.
I'm kind of going over my books for the end of the year,
see if I've got enough money to get through next year.
My dad's books.
You say book.
You have to read some books, get through next year.
Okay.
Okay, I'm half a year old.
I know where the next places are for the years.
I'm probably talking to myself for the moment.
I can hear you, so if you want to say something,
somebody will hear you.
I'm kind of working on some stuff, so I'm not talking much.
Well, you're working on anyway.
I'm just going over the end of the year.
I'm retired, and I'm looking to see if there's any money left
over for next year.
Just going over the end of the month, slash into the year.
Stagmas.
Yeah.
Yeah, the fun of money, isn't it?
Oh, no, it's got a bit low right now,
and then it goes up again, and maybe in a good blow again,
and then there we go again.
There's some bills go out as well,
and then there's food, and then so it goes on, yeah.
Well, when you retire, too.
There's a good thing on time and date.com,
I've just brought it up for the where new year is going to be,
and what you're all my time zone,
and then the next place is a sector.
I think I'll do the new year thing,
but then I'm going to take a break myself
unless some more people come on, maybe, or some moon,
but I wish I'd do it early.
Now, that's cheating, if you do it like seven minutes early.
Well, while you're waiting, you can tell me about...
Was that?
Can you hear me?
I recently made a purchase that was pretty cool.
Which was?
What?
A purchase?
There's a company, I think they're in the UK called Star Labs.
Yes.
In fact, I'm on one of their laptops right now.
Myself.
Myself.
I got the Star Book, and I ordered the Star Light,
the tablet, but it didn't arrive.
It's late.
It's very late.
I was going to order the Star Fighter,
but they said the lead time on that was three to five months,
and I didn't want to pre-pay for that,
and potentially not get it.
But I got the Star Book for my...
Yeah, I got the...
That's the tablet.
Maybe it's that.
Or maybe there's a tablet coming...
I'm not sure with that.
When you say that?
The tablet is one of their newest products,
because they previously had a smaller laptop and a larger laptop,
and now they are doing the next version of those,
and they came out with something that's comparable to the iPad Pro,
and the Surface Tablets,
but it's a...
The next tablet looks really slick.
Yeah.
Oh, you bought one, but it's not come yet.
No, I'm...
How much was that?
In pound.
I'm down in the UK.
I'm next to everything else,
and it was under $1,000 US.
I don't know what that is, and...
How much did it cost it?
Great, but then I ended up breaking the lock down,
as in it dropped on the charging port,
and also I actually speak as...
Somehow I broke that as well.
And I went to help,
and I tried to get help,
and I wasn't much good.
And I got with a friend who faces computers and everything.
It's about a year now, just over.
But he said that apparently he's a different charging port
from the usual A,
so there's something slightly different,
you need a sort of a specific laptop,
and it's not really.
But then he told me that he's found one from Germany,
that's probably it now,
although the shipping would be like 60 pounds,
so it's like, right,
I want that fixed as well.
But when you start labs,
come to me on the other hand,
yeah, I've found up there,
I emailed about something,
they seem to be a good company,
a good, helpful, knowledgeable,
I even had a call when I was going to buy the starlight,
and I sort of said,
like, what if I want to put windows on it,
possibly in dual boot,
and then he reluctantly said,
like,
oh, um,
not dates,
but, um,
but yeah, I'd buy off them again,
although I'm having some issues
with this particular laptop now,
so I'm going to do a speech
and have it speaking with a trial projector,
it didn't connect,
it didn't work for some reason,
it was enough because of the call boot,
or stuff from my laptop,
microphone to my cable to the projector,
I didn't normally do projectors,
and yeah, it looks as staff either as well,
but it's way too expensive,
and it's massive as well.
It was, I don't know about,
70% less,
if you pre-ordered it in October,
the price dropped.
I don't know, I looked at that as well,
maybe I got a bit old now,
I think it's been out a few months now,
but about £1,000 I think,
originally.
Oh, clackies here,
I think,
absolutely,
two or three of us want to do it really,
and I happen to have time and date up
for it well now,
and we're about to have new years in,
so it says,
free 59 UK time at the minute,
and we're laptop,
and,
oh, that's cool.
So, yeah, happy new year,
Bait Bait Jean,
Manila,
so it was in,
it's China, obviously.
Manila is the capital
of the Philippines,
and it says Singapore,
on there as well,
and let's look at this,
let's think of one more,
let's have a look.
And Hong Kong,
and that kind of set,
happy new year,
as a guy now, actually,
I think he's possibly still over
in Hong Kong,
and he's really from Hong Kong,
I know he was over there recently,
he might still be over there,
so probably he's still over there,
I don't know.
Anyway, yeah, happy new year to those places,
yes,
although we don't really get people
and hate to be out from those places,
it seems, but still.
Yeah, happy new year from Hong Kong.
I said for you, yeah,
is that where you came on?
You were even Hong Kong now?
Were you in Hong Kong now?
Yeah.
Yeah, I've been here for,
for many years now.
Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I've spoke to you on this before,
a few times,
uh, Daffodewis,
Daffodewis,
Sven Skow,
Oxo.
Yeah, even,
sort of.
Yeah,
you remember being,
I think you.
Yeah, I,
I think the last time I recorded
a proper episode was,
uh, maybe 2019,
but I'm sure I recorded stuff in 2018,
but...
To be honest,
To be honest,
I was nagged when I came on H.P.
originally,
like, kept by Ken, obviously.
Oh, you should record a show with her.
You should record some shows
like, I don't know, maybe.
And,
I still haven't,
I have, I still haven't done it,
and it's been, I've been on here
a few years now at the
new year, at least.
And, I, I, I, I,
I sat down,
and I got to meet Ken again,
uh, in February, actually,
and his son.
That was not,
at the, at the,
at the Fosdom, yeah.
Well, not me,
some,
but I met Ken and his son at Fosdom,
because within the H.P.
I was standing,
and I was trying to get to the other
standard, all the clothes,
down, even though the
bench was long,
but well,
because, but I met,
I think I met him at the
other bench,
as well, possibly.
Yeah,
I was, uh, at Fosdom,
this year as well,
so I met Ken,
I showed up there,
and said,
oh, hello, guys.
And then he said,
oh, there you are.
And then he gave me a name tag
that he already printed out for me.
Hi, yeah.
I don't know.
No one really knew
what was coming again,
this year.
Uh,
otherwise, I might have met
some of you as well.
I think you know,
I think he said that somebody
like you might have been there
some might actually.
Yeah, yeah.
At the time,
trying to go for another project,
as well.
It was the right next door to stand,
and then he closed it,
right away.
And then it was like,
the event was still on for
another three hours or something,
as well.
Yeah, so since,
since 2018,
I,
I got a full-time job
that is taking a lot of energy,
and also I have a family
going and everything,
so,
yeah,
my contribution,
my contribution,
my contribution
was, I know.
Everything's just
more expensive now,
really it is.
It's like, in general,
yeah, so what I do now is,
I try to at least
pop into the new year's
call of it every year.
every year. Yeah, it's basically what I do as well. So what have people been talking about on the
stream so far? Any interesting topics come up? We had autism and we had some other things, yeah.
I think that's a topic that comes up a lot on the stream. Yeah, I think autism is a good topic to
bring up on this stream actually because I've already said things because I mean like, you know,
probably lots of the Pete, I've said this already, so it's going to be in the podcast already,
but as I'm going to come up, I'm about offending anybody, you know, because autism is a bit of a
seems a bad thing and a good thing and it depends a bit depending on what you're talking about,
but there are probably lots of people that are into HPR, I've got any sub autism. I mean,
I've got some apparently, because it diagnosed or not, because like the inventors syndrome
and a lot of programmers have it too, I think, and the mentors and Einstein had it apparently.
It's like who met with a like, who did this, who did that? Who got out of Covid as well?
Because it wasn't the government, so it was those clever people that know, know how to
mal do stuff with vaccines. Oh gosh, yeah, it's very disappointing that this supposed connection
between vaccines and autism is still something that is being talked about. Well, what I meant is that
you've got to be clever, certain things. It's the same with like some of these tech pro
open source projects, like the Linux kernel probably and the thing is, my friends had
there were some women even that were really clever and they worked on kind of what project now.
But something, maybe it was, maybe it was through a graphic, maybe with an Excel,
Wayland or something else, but something complicated, you know, and average people don't really
have that kind of, you know, usually they don't really have that kind of technical intelligence,
you see what I'm saying. Yeah, it certainly helps to get deep into a niche topic to have the kind
of hyper focused that is more common with people with autism or also ADHD is pretty common.
I saw a funny comic about that, they say vaccines cause autism, but it's not true,
it's been debunked, but what is true is that autism causes vaccines.
Yes, that's, yeah, that's why I meant, I didn't mean, I didn't mean the vaccine cause autism.
I meant it was allistic and the really clever science type people that were working on those
vaccines and, you know, they did it, they got it, and they got it out of Covid.
It wasn't the healthcare or the government because the nurses just to just basically give you a jab
and the governments, they panic and stick it in a lockdown, you know, they didn't get that
Covid, it was the actual people working on the vaccines.
Yeah, yeah, I get you. The politicians didn't get that Covid and the nurses didn't either.
The nurses helped and got people jab, sure, but they didn't actually meant the jab and come up
with it and make it. Yeah, you need a deep nerds in any field to get, to get the real difficult stuff
Although really, we shouldn't be messing around with viruses and things like that because it,
you know, but we do, but people are doing it. It's like going beyond nature and, and yes, if it leaked
or not from, from China, I mean, that's the debate still, but, you know, what I'm saying is,
we shouldn't really be messing around with viruses because it's like, woo, some of the stuff we do
with humans is a bit questionable, but I mean, I mean, we're messing up space now as well,
as space junk and things like that. Yeah, that's the, that's the trade off. If you just let
nerds do what they want, it can be a lot of stuff where it's like the cares we can do.
In that, like, you're a scientist who is so focused on whether they could do it,
they didn't think about it. We think we're so, I mean, generally speaking, you know,
shamanity, we think we're so special and so, yes, we will do this, we'll do that, we'll,
oh, we'll take over the world as well. And then, and then we make it hard in certain ways as
well because we've got, it's like, it's like, how do we, how do you make friends now?
Question mark. And yellow worlds. I mean, I mean, some guy or whatever, though, I was just
in the paper, I've listened to it yesterday. I mean, there was an episode about making friends,
because yeah, I'm a phasic and I, that's interesting. But it's true because it's like,
how do we make friends now? Because you can't just go out there and go, hey, do you want to be
my friend? And online, you can make friends online, but that's online and it's, you know,
so, and then obviously relationships and getting partners is another one, because that's like,
they'll be taking friends from next level and that can be a problem as well. And especially with
autism on top of this as well, because then they say that you might have the right social skills
as well on top and online. Yeah, so what I've been doing is I've realized that the most interesting
conversations I have are with people that I met online and I've been talking online with them
for several years. So I met one of them in the last five years and we met up more than once,
both their place and my place and their new place. So what I'm doing next year is I'm going to go
to the US and meet some more of these online friends because it turns out I really enjoy doing that
and I should be doing more of it. Well, yeah, I mean, I mean, let's take this community as an example
because we don't want it anyway. Obviously, I'm not, I'm not, I mean, I'm not a programmer. I can
code HTML, I can code if I wanted to make a website. I'm not a programmer though. I'm more like a
EU stuff. Linux, why I'm into it. I will promote it. I'll use stuff myself, whatever. But we do,
obviously, generally speaking, I think all of the most of us here are going to have that that Linux
and open source interests, probably everyone has been. I was up all pretty much, which, you know,
that's what makes it nice to go to an event like FOSDEM or something as well because
you just go there and it's like, okay, you work on this, you work on that, or you do this,
you do that, or you do this, or I'm into that, and it doesn't matter. And some of the most
interesting people were going with this autism topic as well, met someone this year, the one
hotels before with some other guys and chat and he said he poured those operating systems to phones
in 13 years or something and he said he had autism and I could tell that yeah, he had some autism
definitely. Just by the way, he was socially as well. But what he was doing was quite amazing,
really. And I met someone like that from where Linux just throws another conference as well,
and it could tell with him straight away like, yes, he's got Asperger's autism and she asked
him eventually and he was like, yeah, and it doesn't matter like an open source conference
because it's about what you're into, what they're into, learning things off each other,
or finding out about things, whatever. So autism doesn't mean anything much at all, really.
And in society, it's supposed to be more accepted now, but in most countries, we're still not
quite there because people are still saying, oh, it's disability, autism is a problem,
what it's like, is it? So it's supposed to be, in most countries, having a more accepting
people in general, disabilities, mental health, whatever. That was not quite there yet.
Yeah, there's a lot of more awareness, at least in specific people who try to push this topic and
talk more about mental health and so on. But there's definitely a lot of work left to do and a lot
of people who need to learn more about how to treat each other so that it's more welcoming to
any type of personality or a way of thinking. Well, yeah, and well, yeah, that's basically it,
but we're not, and we're supposed to set people in general in other ways as well, not just mental
health disabilities, but just in other ways as well, religion, whatever, you know, and we're not
quite, we're not quite there, but we're getting there, hopefully.
We're always going to have something to work on, but I think it's a lot better today than 20 years ago.
And if you want to be with a man or woman or whatever, again, that's, you know, that's up to you,
sort of figuring it all supposed to be. Yeah, that's changed a lot in the last 20 years as well.
Public opinion, that's really great to see. Well, yeah, they push, yeah, but, yeah, we are,
get some changes in society. What have you been doing otherwise?
So what I'm doing? Yeah, yeah, what a different topic. Well, change the subject.
What have you been doing? What have you been doing? What have you been doing? I was talking about
how I got a foot. Yeah, I need to mute whenever I'm not speaking otherwise. I'm getting feedback
with you. I'm going to find a headset at some point, but I've been learning a lot on the job.
I started working at my current place, which is a bank, and I'm working on internal
applications at the bank since 2019. So I knew Python before, but I learned, I really learned
Python in the first half year to a year, so that I really knew everything about modern Python and
how everything works and all with the typing and the tooling and everything that's happened
basically since Python 3.6. So that's been really interesting, and I did record some episodes
about that actually. Yeah, so I did record something after 2018. I know what record is something
in 2019 about stuff I learned on the job about Python dependencies management and stuff like that.
But since then, I've moved up in the sort of decision letter. I've been there long enough now that
I'm the longest working programmer in the department, so I know a lot of stuff about it.
It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. My English accent is
probably a mix of Swedish, American, Cantonese. Yeah, so for the longest time, I was
sure that I would never do any kind of management like work, but now actually
I'm the person who understands the process is the best. No, it's on my side. Whenever you speak
and my microphone is open, then get a feedback. I'm just on my tablet at the moment.
I'm going to find a headset at some point, but I don't want to interrupt this conversation.
That's so funny. It's so funny. I mean, it's not me as well.
Okay, I'm not got a headset on either, because I didn't want to. I mean, that's
that, if I may be, but don't go. Why do you want to sell the headset on? They're not particularly
comfortable. Yeah. What I'm saying is, did you hear why I said in Swedish just now as well?
Yeah, yeah, I heard you. I got full duplex on this side. When did you last get a Sweden?
When I last visited, uh, previous Christmas. Oh, back to Sweden. Yeah. Uh, well, not,
not, yeah, for some, not, not, not Christmas. No, I remember, I remember, I remember and, uh, Sweden,
yeah. Stan, I, uh, some are still getting, yeah. Gamla, some are still getting. How come you
go to Sweden? Did you go there at some point and found it nice? Or do you have connections there?
Or have us, how did you find out about Sweden? Yeah, you know, I'm born now, originally, my,
my mom's Swedish. I speak Swedish. Although, um, it was all a bit, it was a bit sad because, uh, well,
no, we're going to go visit the old summer cottage anyway, because that was planned. And, and she
has a visit, well, we're going to, we're going to visit one of her brothers, but then he couldn't
be there. So we were meeting the other brother and then he told us to bad news because basically,
well, I mean, I've not been that close to, to, to, um, to them anyway, but let's put this
way into a death in the family more recently as well. Um, we've got the news in Sweden that
they didn't, there was, there was going to be ill and stuff as well. I mean, that wasn't good.
But, uh, yeah, no, yeah, we were in Sweden in the summer again, and, or at the end of August,
it was a bit chilly as well. But, um, what made it, what, what got me as well? Because I'm in,
I'm in the UK. So I'll see Brexit, yeah, Brexit, yeah. In recent, even the EU, yeah, and Brexit,
I mean, it happened in 2020 in February for officially. I was in Brussels, actually,
for Fosland that weekend as well. But, and I've been back since last this year's Brussels and
even then it was ages getting through passport control. And I thought it was because of Brexit,
or was it because of, probably because of that and non-plain, or I don't know quite. And that,
that's absolutely ages. Then in Sweden, when, when we landed in, uh, our lander, which I'm sure
you've heard of, our lander, what's our lander? What's our lander? What's our lander for any
listeners that might hear this? Soccer on our lander airport, yes. We landed there, and we're
going in on these Brexit passports, I'm going to call them now, British passports, right?
So my mum, my mum's never bothered with the Swedish passport because she has all
Swedish friends at their bed, but you have to get the embassy, or it's all a bit like, why, what's
point? And it was like, it was like, okay, right, lander then, it's like, right, go over here.
If you're an EU passport control, go over here, go over there. But Britain's not part of the EU
anymore. Go over here, and it felt like you're interested in like this sort of hated queue,
or we're not completely welcome there, sort of felt like it, you know, it was like, Britain's
over there, go over there, Britain's not a EU anymore, go over there, and they were saying that
staff that helped in there. And then we waited there, and it took a while, and then my mum
talked to her and we were like, oh, oh, Swedish, I'm like, yeah, and plus they think they'd put
another plane in from like Turkey or somewhere, to also delay it. And then when we got to the
passport control, this little question, like, okay, we're just Swedish, why are you coming in on
this passport then? And I was like, well, yeah, just ball there, but I don't know, it's being a bit,
I don't travel enough to Europe anyway, but it's a bit of a thing with the whole Brexit now.
And what I've read is that they can have fingerprint scans coming in October as well,
for non-EU citizens, non-EU travellers, and the fate recognition as well. And then they're
going to store the data up to three years on the EU systems, or until the last time you travel
there sort of thing. You've got low, can't you properly, is it headset?
I can't, you properly, it's very low, it's very, very low.
Oh, is it true to use? Can you hear me better now?
Yeah.
All right, I didn't realize it would actually use the microphone, the headset, that's great.
Yeah, so I went to mainland China today, I went to Shenzhen, you can, when you live in Hong Kong,
you get to Shenzhen just over the day, and you can apply visa the same day.
Is that very close to the Hong Kong border, or?
Yeah, I can take the metro to the border and then walk across and then take the metro to the next city.
But there is a proper border, it is not an international border, but it acts like an iranian visa.
But if I go at the right point, I can apply a visa on the spot, it took like two hours, so I went
to a little bit like Gibraltar and Spain, well that's not quite the same thing, but
well that was actually, yeah, Gibraltar is under Britain all kind of, and Spain want that back
properly, and then at times they get really stupid with the border, more so when you're trying
to get back into Spain, proper Spain.
Yeah, how does work between Northern Ireland and UK now, is that completely open,
or is there some special rules?
That's being a, I don't know, exactly completely about it, but that's being a mess as well,
with Ireland and Northern Ireland for sure, and Britain, EU, and it's been a lot, a lot in the
news about that, and trade, and moving around, and I think it's mostly sorted now, but it's not
perfect, it's still got some problems.
Yeah, it's not easy.
As the world is going to say, when I passed into China, they took my fingerprints,
and they had a machine for it, and the machine detected that I had a Swedish passport,
so the instructions were in Swedish, which was a bit unexpected.
In Swedish?
Yeah, I mean, I mean, we went to Florida in 2008, North Carolina and Airport on the way there,
and back whatever, but I remember I had to put, to give them fingerprints in the US,
but that's kind of standard for the US, I think, that's been like that for a long time,
you give them fingerprints at the airport or whatever, but having this going to be a requirement
for the EU is new, and what I read is that they want to delay it after, because there's going to be
Euro-Football in France or Paris in summer, so they would say, oh, it's not October,
what I also read is that Britain has helped on this new system system before the EU,
but it's going to really delay travel to begin with, whilst they're getting data off people.
And I think they even said that kids can go through these places or reckon some gates now as well,
in the EU. Another one, when you travel is, of course, the 100 milliliters water thing, yeah?
Yeah, that's the whole business now, special bottles that you are able to bring with you.
I don't know, where, where, in general.
Yeah, I mean, there are travel kits now, travel kits now, small enough shampoo bottles,
small enough conditioner bottles, etc, so that you know you can always bring them across,
and you don't have to think about it. Well, what I read, why I read is that they get
they're going with, they're going to actually change the machines in the UK in like,
Heathrow and probably like the main air, maybe all the airports, at least the main airports,
like Heathrow and stuff, and so they're going to update them, the scanning machines,
and what it means is that in the UK at least you can go with say, up to one liter of liquid,
to water or whatever, but then like that will say it although in the other country may have
not updated, their stuff, so you may have to do it that 100 milliliters roll, you have to know
what country you're in, when you fly back, if you can't, yeah, but it was a bit, it was
a straight thing in 2020, because I went to Brussels and I went to France then, but also I was going
for some groups over there, and plus I've gone with a, let's say an ex or kind of thing,
whatever that was and she got a bit of a disability and stuff to physical
like she can walk with some problems etc etc right and we stressed it all a bit
stressed out on the way back being to this train museum, literally shopped at the
shampoo and they had to go back with some special systems whatever but
anyway I was all a bit stressful, got the taxi, the taxi didn't come picking us up
to the first time and of course I went to the bags gone, the suitcase is gone
and I totally forgot about the shampoo bottles I just brought as well because I
found this like German shampoo or something that seemed alright in the shop
I thought oh yes have some more of that back why not the year before
and of course I go to the scanning the security at the airport
and it's like no you can't have this this this or this and that because the bottles
like 400 milliliters they're about four of them is oh and it's like oh she's
gonna take all my shampoo now because and the only thing you can put in your suitcase
like no two cases gone and now on top of that the woman was like hey there's
something shiny in the bag in my handbag it in my yeah yeah handbag it's like oh
and I was like ah oh yeah there's that all like a glass and I was like oh oh um
I was like oh yeah oh yes a snow globe I've been at because I've been at the Atomium
you know the Atomium Brussels yeah yeah I didn't like it there particularly it was
it was a great great place as engineering as a building how they built that place but then
it's been turned into an absolute rubbish museum with a really expensive restaurant at the top
which is really bound for vegetarian now I've been for 10 years she ate meat so that's not
problem but I made a fuss there or no the main course was a bowl of edge and I was like well
the starter was a varioli thing the dessert was okay but anyway get the tub of drinks off there
you know it's expensive it's been like 100 euros in there so enough food and drinks
that I've got the drinks taken off when I made the fuss but anyway there's a bit of security
so I came back with a snow globe and I was thinking like oh no they're going to take that as well
how they're going to take the lucky that but no I mean snow globes have liquided them as well
people may not think that or not think too much of it but they do no they said like 100 milliliters
so that was good little small but I wrote online that if you think go through security with like a
snow globe for example you should probably try to tell them or quite possibly tell them because
well they're going to know there's something in there but it was straiting how the shampoo bottles
went still and it's like come on these are shampoo bottles but on the sweet and I think we got
through with a bottle and it was no no drink the water or I'd add an ace it's it's all a bit annoying
and then the worst one is when they want to check you take your shoes off and do your look at your
feet possibly and what I write on the internet as well as basically don't walk barefoot
on on if you can avoid it on yeah on their poor security place like that because they never
clean the floor basically so you can imagine that the millions of thousands of people that
are being through there yeah I wouldn't walk barefoot and don't and don't and watch half
hotel rooms as well going back in snow because there's germs and things like that as well
yeah hotel rooms are better than airport floors at least there are not a thousand people going
through that particular hotel room on a given day well yeah exactly it's like well yeah exactly
and then what you take your shoes off in the airport and I don't barefoot and no no thanks
yeah I haven't been subjected to that I think in the US they do it still they don't know if it's
all the time or if it's like they take samples happened on the way Sweden well now I was with
blah blah blah and I said no I'm not taking my shoes off I said if they if they if they try and get
me to take my shoes off and then she said I don't know no no no no no all right fine we'll just
scam the shoes then but they but it's like I was probably two other people I said before even got
to the airport little blah blah as well you know before you even got to the airport I said like if
they try and get me to take my shoes off I'm not doing that basically and then and then yeah
we started going oh oh wait can you take your shoes off and it's like no I don't want to take my
shoes off because yeah and then you scan them upside somewhere but yeah but you don't have
to take the shoes off and then walk through the gate through the security gate right you just
take the phone and inspect them and then you can put them back on something like yeah something
like that then why why don't I have to be off somewhere with it yeah walk around and
but then it was like no we'll just scan it okay fine but yes straight straight some of that
I got the TSA check last year and I don't I get to go through without taking off my belt and
shoes and other stuff because the FBI has already determined I'm okay so do you always need
to take off your shoes otherwise previously yes and when the few times that I have flown
I have flown twice since I got TSA pre-checked and both time
we're not hearing you more than they disappear again I think
are you fighting the audio equipment there did someone ask me a question yeah you were in the middle
you were saying you flown twice and both times what everyone else that's not in the pre-SA
TSA pre-check line has to take off their shoes and belts and and other things wow that's annoying
so I'm probably going to have to do that you said that you're okay so you don't have to do it
yeah it's a federal yeah we're not hearing anything are you using push to talk or are you using
gated microphone activation push to talk I think that's true because you can't open their
headset I'll do you know talking about one actually yeah good one on now like I said earlier
who's here she wants to sit here with with you know for too long with a headset it's not very
comfortable is it when you sit there long enough trust I caught one maybe somewhere but oh well
I have to do it the other year with some sort of headset on because it wouldn't really work
with my advice without but but this one it does work so blow out my work headset
yeah it's echo and feedback thanks to if everyone does it without isn't it yeah yeah what's the
best it actually so this is a usb headset at first but you can't we didn't flak you that's what
I was trying to say to you when you last but when were you in Sweden last yeah so I went last
fostom to Belgium and Sweden and next year I'm not going to Sweden because I'm flying to
America instead are you doing fostom again this February so I'm doing fossi in July in portland
organ instead of fostom oh sure that could have met you last last this year if I known by well
yeah or met a less I did you might have no I don't know there was this one Swedish guy
because I came in late on the Sunday uh-huh and I met someone who shot right okay not at the
HPR table no it's probably just it's probably some other guy but I think I might have been there before
when I was thinking like if I met his guy before in some previous year somewhere might might be
Mr. Doorkham I think it was a Swedish guy they yeah they're they're usually quite a few Swedish guys
yeah the American one like fossi yeah or any of that stuff that because well I think yeah I
I really enjoyed coppileftcon when that was after fostom in 2019 that was arranged by the
software freedom conservancy and fossi in portland organ is also arranged by the software freedom
conservancy so I good hopes that it's going to be a good conference I think fostom is very big
and very crowded so it's it's difficult to really talk to people there I'm hoping this is a bit
less chaotic I think asha has an email from Karen Sandler she had only the other day basically you
say that it's I don't know if you're not sure if I opened that part or maybe they opened it
well properly basically I donated at some stage or whatever it was like hey you haven't
donated for a while so this is what we do up to now when it's done right yeah I'm donating
monthly I don't have the money to donate really anyway yeah I'm fortunate fortunate enough to have
it so I'm giving away some and then yeah I think yeah I mean there was there was there was
all the one in the UK and then where you know it's about for 10 years and then it stopped
just for the pandemic or whatever and about 300 people plus there being the free node event
twice in mind in my nearby city but that's good about 300 people but yeah you're fostom and it
really is like whoa it's just like it's just so big I mean that's why to recall so many of the
videos I mean the talk as well because yeah yeah there's so much going on at once that like how can
you I mean sometimes I end up going to fostom and I'm not even going to talk because I just
just going around the stands takes enough time there's lots of stands as well and then you go
and talk to someone there and possibly in and somebody else and then whatever and then
then you get some food and then you like well or it varies a bit per year but I've been in some
good talk before I've met Mark Shuttleworth before for example when you're going to launch the
a bunch of tablet and I was in the talk and then it was like we've just got a backtick and a
question so the speaker and it all kept me because I've seen videos but of course Mark Shuttleworth
and they went up to the matchwoods and they said low and stuff and they said like oh yeah I'm
into about a tablet project and I went to different distro and shut a glass in a mouth space by
kept it to Linux will that ever give me just about a question oh a bit brief but shut cans with
me so that was nice and that I've met Richard Stalman before because I've been a speech that he
did before as well and you know being there in the software legal issues dev room with some of
those people like Karen's Tando have all that all dev whatever and Braddie's thing yeah yeah
they have a Bradley what's his last name yeah because I might have said it wrong but yeah I've
been there yeah I've seen those people there before he talks and whatever and I'll find that
side quite interesting actually to to open source and and software and stuff because it's like
on the one hand it's like just leave us alone we are or leave these products alone stop
trying to sue people over patrons or or or whatever but on the other hand Microsoft or
whether no if the new Microsoft love their ex-apartment or so they say what they do when it makes
business sense right right and they got the Microsoft Lab and actually Microsoft like the
Ubuntu event in Latvia it was a test for public last year Ubuntu come and they've been there
this year in Latvia during speeches but they you know the one hand is like Payton some
claim dirty and all that stuff and trademarks and semi-shadow wrote on your and as GD if I mean
GPL violation is quite an interesting subject in a way because obviously Braddie Kuhn and people
like that are involved with that sort of thing as well and apparently you read that I'm not
playing ball are not quite doing what they're supposed to be doing at times now especially under
IBM yeah they're really throwing the line trying to find exactly how much they can restrict how
little they can do and still be legally just on the right side yeah and apparently yeah apparently
they're kind of giving the source code away although it's all a bit jumbled up so it's like yes
for you this that and this but it's like a bit like a jigsaw puzzle it's all a bit jumbled up
and you're like okay because because apparently they kill centos in the pandemic whereas
Kobe was actually yeah and then there's some of these like I saw a bound table video from
more to use some conference with Bradley and you know almerlinux mocky linux and suits were
invited they couldn't come but Oracle were there Oracle because Oracle and price index is also
based on red hat or fork from yeah and apparently they don't like obviously distros that are
based on them and that's at which kind of makes sense really just if there's lots of lots of
enterprise style linux history based on their thing that are cheap or whatever then it's
they're not going to be so keen on that they want people you know yeah but they played real nice with it
and accepted cento s and even supported it for a while until they went in and the influence they
got through that support to kill it yeah this is caused a lot of trouble at work we have to switch
over from cento s to red hat now since there won't be a cento s eight. I didn't use this stuff
personally because I'm I'm more like a you know home user whatever but obviously certain people
like you in that case actually have to work with this stuff for real in in your dog yeah everything
that work is built on cento s and we need to switch over to red hat now so if there's strategy
and we are now paying the license in favor now so different and fight on it because of yeah
it's better hassle. Yeah so there are these other cento s likes now that are fully free and they
provide the patches according to version and all of this information,
rockulinux and almelinux but they haven't gained the reputation yet that companies are
quite as keen to jump onto them as they were on cento s but maybe with time people
even more confident to use. Yeah well I think they're like the proper I think I think they're
those two are just proper community distros that's the thing whereas they are all friends
by directs on the other hand it's got you know it's got a lot behind it as well so it's like
yeah there's something quite different. I feel oracle or something quite different from
a community distro. Yeah but they work with or to do some there's a bar on table I think it was
all my dead developers but he's also I think quite a bit like Bradley or someone a bit
also like a lawyer or a software shoes guy or something or maybe or maybe it was a lawyer actually
but it was on this round table. That was only Richard Fontana and he was some oracle we worked
for oracle but he was like a either developer smashed a lot or a bit of both and he was on their
round-robed round table stash and videos that I saw but yeah that's one thing and then there's
obviously a bunch who and I mean well they're apparently making profit now I believe but the only
thing is they basically killed off everything interesting that well that was like well interesting
because she might focus or home users or whatever like that unity has gone well there's maybe a
community somewhere carries it on. All the phone project all that stuff because it wasn't making
money so they had to kill that off. Yeah yeah. Apparently MATKshuttleworth wanted to carry on
funding that but shareholders like no and that's a shame as well really.
Yeah the project still exists though but yeah obviously not as much of the UB ports.
I mean UB ports is great what they're doing it really is. I went to the UB port stand this year
yeah that was them. Now I've seen two guys with a hoodie on to begin with. Hey when did you get
that? Where's the UB port stand? Okay cool yeah I went over and yeah I had some extra money at the
time anyway plus I potentially get the fuzz them to buy stuff anyway as well. So I went over so I
went over and I basically brought two or everything to begin with. I have two of those soft toys
I have two hoodies I'll have two t-shirts I'll have two I'll have um yeah I have two socks or
no one gets more socks I have two and she looked at me a bit like really and then she's a bit like
really good and it was like I was like yeah yeah and I know it's going to be like not cheap doing
this but yeah yeah fine yeah and then she was like oh god that guy he just bought like two
everything and I came back and I got some more socks what's what's your report stand I made a
quite big purchase there this year. Yeah so it was the song that hoodie said he was all
UB ports merch. Yeah yeah yeah yeah I had to buy that stuff really so yeah
then she sort of smiled like look like uh to add this up and then she's like I don't want to see
what the size is up to probably there's also half joking I know it's not going to be cheap
but then she was like I'm sure you kept UB ports like some and it's like yeah yeah
no I love UB ports I mean I mean I've got a friend that I know 10 years my lens user groupy
he always says stuff like oh UB ports is a bit or bunny touch is a bit rubbish because it's always
like like free I suppose I mean it wasn't based on the LTS originally it would be like 4.10 14.10
not an LTS and then 15.04 something based and then 15 and eventually 16.04 under
conical then he dropped it of course but it's basically based on LTS but the problem is
they end up like based on a LTS that if you compare it to a desktop and server is like
three or two or three versions behind the current LTS so like like there's 22.04 out now and
and they're only just rebased I think on 20.04 very recently LTS fun to yeah but I think it's
just how it will always be behind the desktop versions in that sense just just how it is and then
yeah and then he says because you're basically running software from like six years ago or something
or six still maybe not as bad now but 16.04 and then it's 20.24 sort of thing yeah or the year
or 2023 and I've got 16.04 or you've got 20.04 but it's the actual LTS is 22.4 so it's sort of like
two or three versions behind the actual LTS when you compare it to a desktop and server and that's
why you chose the busy running outdated software that's what he meant and then it looks really
interface and the apps and stuff is okay I mean it's an update somewhere the writer is really
that has that on it but I think what they're doing is amazing plus they pull it to different
phones or try to and they've taken it on the whole operating system and they carry it on
carry it going on but my saying friendly so he didn't like Firefox OS when that came out with
the other phone with it you thought that was rubbish he didn't like Firefox OS I mean he dropped
that years ago but and sale fish is a different story but I don't know I have a I have a
device that could have sale fish on it more recent I think I put it on there but I believe they're
polly making some good progress there as well now have you tried all of these what have you
tried all of them Ubuntu touch sale fish yeah and what was that I OS now or something
pison the Firefox OS has been acquired or moved around a couple of times is it called
chi OS yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes something that's right I've
got a phone or two with that one actually as well um yeah I got no I got so I got an old um the
original Joe the phone mine doesn't really work I don't think now but I had paid around with that a
bit I didn't upgrade once and no actually install apps and actually it actually stopped it working
what I had to reflash it told me now I see like names upgrade that to some small version
this is years ago and I had to put some KD or cute app on there and it made it go wrong but I haven't
been in tried recent versions of that so because I've got a bad got a fair phone or something
that I could run it on by to that would have to reflash uh I've got all that to be the EOS thing
based on Android I've got a roller thing that's on Ubuntu touch we've got a roller
so that's a more recent device you actually buy that I believe now without even looking a
roller phone and that's a read that you've had a roller F8 from Android preinstalled or you can
have with Ubuntu touch preinstalled and I believe that's without looking that they're still selling
them and to come and it was crowdfunding originally originally but now the company is established
I haven't looked recently but I assume it's all being sold still and it's a German company called
hello hello Waltz systems or something behind that now you can actually buy that like I assume still
maybe you can get some tongue con but yes um yeah yeah I don't do I don't sell F8
it was an old version or the original version it's heavily done recent versions I've had
the Ubuntu touch on the old stuff to mute some newer stuff I should upgrade again though I've got
I've bought a phone on eBay specifically for Tizen it was something I said one it came in from
India about 50 pounds I was quite cheap um and I did that I got one on eBay not all Amazon
Amazon I think for Firefox OS as well it's just just it's so tab one you know and same with the
Tizen Tizen phone um so yeah oh how long ago this isn't that's uh that's like 10 years or more
not Tizen yeah I think it's on some smart TV yeah if Samsung's they're still using it
I think there's been like a Tizen smartwatch before and there's been like I think it's been on
TV I'm not sure what I think it was like they're like plan B if they want to drop Android because of
Google being a bit tied into Google too much or something and that was the okay yeah it's like
Amazon are doing it Amazon fire it's obviously based on Android but I read that Amazon are now
looking into making their own Linux based operating system as well for that for those kind of
devices so they're they're think they're probably thinking but like Tizen where like what if we don't
want to be tied into Android so much we care our own Linux based operating system on the devices
and there must be some Chinese better textures and that's what they're going to do apparently
I imagine because I mean I mean Android doesn't open source project but obviously the
yet for operating system is but not the Google play services and that kind of stuff yeah
with people denry want to have as well so I was good with Tizen that you could actually
but I mean I didn't run that way because I'm angry birds on it as an it can run Android apps on it
and and you can do that you can do that with Sailfish OS as well and you can do it with a button
that you touch right and Linux or there's or maybe there's something else that worked on
they're only good only if the device is powerful enough but yeah it's bad yeah that's why windows
foam panel apparently as well so I've had tech people say it's one of the logo however people
before go that oh windows foam mobile wasn't that bad as an operating system but then it just
pale when it came to the app yeah yeah and that's why my my my the old Microsoft or whatever that's
why apparently they went to Samsung and said hey years ago what the 10 years ago
well whatever that was yeah okay you're you're breaking 235 have had a story for you're breaking
235 are software patient Samsung because you've got Android on there and you've got using this
and that so we want five dollars for every single and Android tablet or phone that you sell
and I assume it is other mobile phone companies too so they may more more money be a patient
for than that selling windows mobile it it seems yeah yes this is quite okay still I think when
they did we were in Nokia that was the last attempt to use mobile and when when Nokia even gave up
and started using Android that was pretty much it for Windows mobile oh I've got the um
but aren't of phone that's Kali OS but I've also got a mostly just my kind of general use
I've got a Nokia D20 this is a cheap with me cheap phone but it's under the new Nokia
putting out phones going back to 2013 I mean most of them are obviously old phones
and a bit useless now some of them have never really been used of the phone properly I just I
like the Firefox phone that I talked about and a bit more like it and Kali OS
is a museum piece of I was more getting those because they were cheap but gone they were old already
anyway yeah for the operating system really I like operating systems yeah I wanted to have
a play with that and if I said to you that my first ever smartphone was in 2013 you might
be like really it was like yeah there was an Android Samsung Galaxy S3 mini now I don't know I
got some some other some mini PCs and stuff too now as well some of the XE hardware of course
spectrum next yeah yeah we have a spectrum I'm a bit too young to have had a spectrum
when they were I think that you bought normally but also after I haven't encountered them
in the second hand market there well yes I was a bit too young or not born just yet when
the original spectrum came out but I think I think a few years or so later that after that
because the one at the end of the 80s right yeah so I'm born just before the 80s and my first
I saw this one how funding like three years ago or something and it was like right no actually
I lost money on the Vega Plus because there was a Vega Plus first spectrum Vega Plus and I
crowdfunded as a load of other people but this one collapsed and I won't lost their money
and they try to they get to revive the spectrum and build new old hardware yeah there's a Vega
Plus project some guys in London right or somewhere that one failed but then about a six long
days there's another group of people and they're like right oh yeah Thailand
who else is on the list this Thailand is it also Malaysia or are they on Chinese time?
are they on Chinese time zone who's time has two three more left so anyway have new year
anyone in UTC plus seven hours Bangkok Hang Hoi it's quite funny that several yeah these are
east of Singapore but Singapore is still on Chinese time zone anyway for culture and for
business reason when you said phenomenon first as well so they're right to be Australia is in
full time zone isn't it or maybe I'm back maybe I've had that one wrong oh no they're on several
and during summer they have even more because some of them have daylight saving and some don't
and then they have I think it's the it's Tasmania is I'm like it's not PENH webinars
but PENH is PEN what PENH also it's gonna be a half hour time zone coming up it looks like
Max actually confuse it oh yeah but what I was saying is spectrum next so it was like I need to I
I meet I need to really get it out on my box and connect it to my TV I know I haven't done
it yet I've been doing other things whatever but then to be fair the box is so well packed it's
just like yeah I got one of these cool it looks really good the box the idea I mean I took
right out with the actual parcel box that that was hard to get into it was so well packed
but the actual box that this thing's in is great but no it's I think it's basically the spectrum
next like like supposed to be oh it's supposed to be like the original spectrum of one of them
but it's been slightly updated here and there there's even there's even a like their processor
but then there's a Raspberry Pi Zero in there for accelerated graphics where that means
for certain things and you can do Wi-Fi HMI and it's basically an upgraded original console
that came out obviously in the 80s I think that's the idea then with that I crowdfunded a book
or bought a book as well and it's all about like how you could have done assembly basically
like games for it and stuff like that I think and it can play the old games I don't have any
or I'm too too young to have the old spectrum cartridges or whatever but it's got a lot of games
pre-installed as well so and that are they the spectrum plus or whatever you know the Vega plus
thing got that didn't happen to us money other people lost money that's gone that's had it
but the spectrum next Vega the spectrum next thing yes that's happened it's like it is basically
game console yeah and that's very similar to the original was a few updates obviously here
and I think having that's the idea yeah it's not similar to some of these other projects that
have done like the mini Nintendo Entertainment you're saying that one of these places wasn't in
the Chinese time zone because they messed it up no so geographically Singapore is far west
of Beijing but they're on Chinese time zone because it's very practical to be on the same time
zone as China so even though Singapore is west of Jakarta and Bangkok and whoever is celebrating
New Year right now Singapore is west of them but they they keep their time zone as if they were
yes for the things we do it's a bit like the the American Samaritan who was the
the very last time zone I believe in and a few years ago they were like hang on no wait well
well no we do a lot of trade with like Australia and New Zealand or enough trade so now we want to
change to becoming the very first time zone now so I find so interesting yeah so I find so
interesting when we just when this became I think what's 424 hours originally this New Year's
show and that's only 26 hours wasn't it because it's yeah because it's 12 hours behind because
Britain is supposed to be in the middle really of time yeah and UTC you GMT 0000 yeah so some
are 13 hours and 12 hours but there's actually 14 hours ahead because New Zealand and Australia
do summertime to confuse it as well yeah all right it's in the middle of the summer yeah yeah that's
why this started at 10am to UTC GMT officially and might will end officially tomorrow midday just
like the previous last few years of this or whatever so the whole idea that we've got 24 hours we
were talking about you know we've humans messing up space and humans have done this and humans have
done that but even our idea of a 24 hour day leasing at this time yeah we've messed that up as well
as soon as you evolve humans it all becomes complicated yeah it's a bit like I like the more I went
to Iceland in May 2015 you know in May 2015 I went to Iceland and so Britain's on BST British
summertime yet because the clocks have gone now forward it's you know summertime but Iceland
keep the same time all year and so I had to go back an hour and time it's just because I went to
Iceland yeah because of that and then an hour forward again when I came back yeah which was
it was kind of interesting but yeah yeah I'd say Iceland is being the sensible one there
well because where it is and stuff yeah and whether we need to come take I mean it's just quite
light at midnight in Iceland actually still in sky we're not totally light but not totally dark but
because you know some light and it was like okay yeah it's like in Sweden yeah I like that but I like
like I like that yeah I like that you're you're glad you had summer stew again I like that the
summer cottage over there um saying that is another place that the other boat that someone else had
and now he's got that now as well um anyway um yeah no no it's nice when you like when it gets
lighter well in England it's sort of full 30 about four o'clock I think in the in the sort of
midsummer summer midsummer sort of time but in Sweden yeah it could be like we're getting
light about 3 a.m starting to but the downfall is of course at this time of year if you're in Sweden
because yeah because it my mum grew up it gets dark at three o'clock in the afternoon basically
I mean yeah even as far south as well even as far south as calm uh basically yeah near Christmas uh you
just have sunlight during lunch basically I'm not doing lunch yeah yeah rest of it just it's dark
when you go to the office it's dark when you go home yeah there's been debates here in UK like you
know maybe if you put the clock two hours forward all year as well because that will help with road
being not light at certain times not dark or as dark or whatever and uh had a nose
per per year we oh we cut over till it gets like early and some of that daylight is then lost on
those people because they're still sleeping or something like that I think we'll die there as well
okay I think it's just I think it's a sweet and tasty like four a.m. or something I think a
sweet and this discussion becomes quite funny because it only matters uh if you have daylight
saving or not it only matters basically around the equinoxes I did like a Christmas um
um little short speech on the minute you get my group on my groups and I said and it was that
you know if you had to find a Christmas and one of the things I said was so yeah I'll see North
Pole you may think Father Christmas comes from the North Pole however if you're in Sweden
Father Christmas you may have heard that Father Christmas comes from Lapland and I said to them
because then when they were Lapland there's only like wild tea people put their hand up
that's how I was like yeah Lapland where Denmark well not Denmark that's all that's kind of
navy is still ugly but uh feel especially what I said and then Finland no Norway Sweden Finland
joined up together yeah it was about what Santa would eat so I'll talk about Mediterranean as well
but yeah yeah they think I don't know you think Father Christmas comes from Lapland
and hence what the tradition is in the my family you're asking I think when I was a kid he was
on the North Pole with a North Pole in my family I think he was from the North at least one year uh
he was from the North Pole when he come from Lapland with a North Pole yeah I don't think I ever
heard in my family Lapland specifically but it was vague or it was the North Pole pretty sure I've
heard somewhere with the other yeah they say Lapland possibly Lapland instead of all the North Pole
yeah yeah but yeah everyone else has North Pole and Finland says he's from Finnish land
Rovanian fish where the Finnish part of Lapland specifically and the town of Rovanian
they have a Santa land there like an immune park oh I didn't know that but okay that makes sense
also those are the people who have the ice hotels yeah that's it Sweden yeah I've seen the
ice hotel somewhere on TV I think and but yeah I don't know the hotel's all made of ice oh that's
cool isn't it it's very cool I'm not intended I went and stayed there one night
look quite impressive you make it many years later ice like that I'm like oh like ice pops like a
building like oh wow it's the best night's sleep I'm had in my entire life because the walls
are like 50% snow 50% ice and they eat all sound it's the quietest room I've ever slept in
well gentlemen I am here to celebrate my respiratory pie is now running
mx linux in the pie flavor mx linux so what's that about mx linux as opposed to
a raspier or some other just hello no minor are you there mk linux which is not
which is something and all sorts of the nexus anyway what's up guys hello Joe
they're correct are you in the U.K. as well just like Sebastian well I think Sebastian is in U.K.
I'm in Texas I think I think I know what you've done khaki so there is I believe there's
that other Joe isn't there well even go around in the U.S really I thought he was he was working
with well he wasn't working in Texas for a while no I think that's the I'm not I'm not I'm not
being here for a while but it's last year right now I'm pretty sure that's I think it's him
with Joe Reznington is I'm pretty sure British but he was working with over at linux academy with
looking here he's going to America for a bit yeah he had that was a couple of years ago though I
know he's still going for the broadcasting guy this is the other Joe yeah yeah the other Joe
of the yeah was from London and was working for Jupiter broadcast which was owned by linux academy
which was based out of Austin and I'm pretty sure that's where he got fired but that was
several years ago now yeah for using words that wouldn't have gotten him fired in London
yeah evidently he called somebody a cunt you can use switch call in as a reference for which
which the words are that you can't see well it's not like we're going to get demonetized by me saying
them yeah we cut out the middle man we have no monetization to to have removed it's it simplifies
things immensely is anybody hearing me yeah we can hear you much better now yeah for some reason
mx80 x64 has been flaky with the audio for for some reason I was used keen to us through the
Raspberry Pi now the one you're celebrating no I just did a first boot on it which means I just have
my username and system name and in the bare basics of password I haven't configured it yet
haven't mumbled it yet but I just wanted to say that I have gone through first boot
uh I don't know if I need to expand the uh I think hey Raspberry Pi iOS does that automatically
anymore but I mean you can always test it with dropping down the command line and type in what
Raspberry config yeah well also they have a uh a handbook that uh that should
should tell that stuff that's on the desktop so what attracts you to mx Linux specifically
well for one thing I like uh I like a dubian bass I like uh
xfce and I don't particularly care for a snaps or stuff like that although flat packs seem to be okay
so what does mx Linux bring you that raspy and doesn't for example it's uh preinstalled xfce instead of
the pi desktop which is I find a little limiting uh I mean it's an educational desktop but
but it is clearly designed for for beginners and newbies and just as a bit too many training wheels
all right I mean I was running it but uh when I when I have a chance to change over I'm I'm going
to be very happy with it although I'll probably have to go through some upgrades and
and certainly bring over some of my personal software yeah there's always a bit of a moving
interface when setting up a new yeah but I uh yeah I use a speed dial extension which is available on
well virtually everything these days uh firefox edge and chromium so all I have to do is install
install the all you have to do is install the
crispy dial extension and then I load a backup file from that which gives me basically a bunch of
thumbnail pictures that that are bookmarks so he's got the new app page yeah it it replaces the new
tab page it and I can have a bunch of them for different stuff a lot of my youtube channels
Linux stuff uh also to cash to thousand okay I mean weather channels and stuff like that uh radar
so how many Raspberry Pi's do you have of of different types um I have a flaky Pi 400 which I
shelved I've got two eight gig pies and one two gig one of the eight gigs is is currently
not operational I the two gig is now used as a app cash for my um x86 mx Linuxes
hey guys how's it going hello Lovecraft how are you well it is going pretty good um I just got
mx Linux up on on on my Pi desktop very cool just the first boot I haven't done anything
gonna have to load mumble on it and load some other stuff but but it seems to work pretty good
uh fairly snappy from a book process
haven't tried any web browsing on it so I don't know how it is compared to the
POS and I'm going from 2024 uh I'm in Hong Kong it's uh dark outside the sky is clear and 2024
is looking nice so far oh happy new year happy new year well being Hong Kong
you get to this pick of new years right I always have another one coming but usually I would use
the public holidays around Chinese New Year to go to to foster so Lovecraft were you located
I'm from the east coast of the USA uh New Jersey so it's uh just afternoon here
and so we got Hong Kong UK East Coast and Texas yeah well Hong Kong uh Hong Kong and I cover new
England um we're we're north of Jersey and everything how's this snowing in England well North
of me it's it's getting pretty reasonable or serious uh the last couple of weeks we've had some
nasty nasty rainstorms uh some of my relatives in Maine had power lost for four days
with with a rainstorm and that's kind of unusual most most of the time and when the snow gets on
um the branches and take stuff snow or ice take stuff down not just rain yeah it's been really
ready right here yeah well we didn't have snow in October uh we didn't have any
even leave it so we did well we made the way the way the next day we've had
50-60 degrees around Christmas time which is outrageous um right now I have a uh
uh thermometer temperature of 37 degrees and a effective temperature of 31 degrees with with
windshield by the way the xfc weather application is getting its data from a Norwegian
weather service oh yeah that's very popular I've used that app on my mobile this way from
as well from e to dot well every so often when I load the application or what not I get a
warning from from the Norwegians that they need to update the um interface or something
because we're using an obsolete we're using an obsolete uh interface you know
uh uh api i guess yeah but what's really funny is i'm on these coast the weather data has to come
from our weather service to the Norwegians and then bounce back over here yep just taking a minute
to celebrate my new well new machine or new installation I am I don't drink coke much but
I decided to celebrate this new year is with Coca-Cola and a coke Coca-Cola glass
all right I've had some beer here I've had some Pepsi Max and I've had some cider
well some of the medications that I take uh do not uh they they are unfriendly to
alcoholic beverages yeah but besides my dad drank enough for well several generations
oh all right do you hear that well alcoholism is a nasty nasty disease and well
there wasn't much left uh when he passed I don't know which was worse my mother's all
all timers are my dad's alcoholism both of them ended up stealing their identity by the time
they died yeah it's no fun well when those addictions get their claws into it
it's pretty sometimes some people can beat it and some people can well so we have Hong Kong
earlier we had our friend Morton see from Thailand and his beautiful fiancée nice family
well it I mean he's trying to help his fiancée through the
through the swamp of legal immigration and I find that to be well I'm glad that she's going
to be legal but considering how many illegals the government has just said come on down and
we'll set you up with no questions asked yeah I'm not gonna comment on that yeah well I guess
Chinese is going is going through some interesting times took I had some fun with Chinese
immigration in the last two days I got in on my third attempt I made all the mistakes possible
I was just going there over the day on a one day visa and first I went to the wrong
port where they didn't have an office for that and then I went to the correct port but it turns
out they closed already at 4.30 in the afternoon so I was planning to go on Saturday but I
could but I'm finally good well you didn't make too many mistakes otherwise we wouldn't be talking
that's I mean you know any landing you can walk away from so to say yeah or any immigration slash
customs whatever yeah a friend of mine or an acquaintance of mine worked for well the the
organization for airport security that they put in after 9.11 and you said that there was some
interesting he had some interesting stuff including the tons of various weapons and sharp
objects that at the airport people confiscated every year in the international airport in Stockholm
they have a transparent box where they showcase some of the stuff they've collected it is mostly
Swiss army knives and corks things like that well my friend said that they're at Boston's Logan
their official turn in is a hundred thousand dollars worth wow now that's the official turn in
many interesting items wonder wonder home with with various personnel I don't know but
they also had a manager that well there was a labor action and evidently the people who were
working under him were wondering if they should chip into China air freight also I heard that some of
the people that the labor contractors for the aircraft and whatnot while they were being
provided by a labor contractor who had political connections and a lot of these people were recruited
in the Middle East and because of the political connections the wheels were greased for these
very deserving people well it's getting late over here I think going to be stepping out for a bit
maybe it come back in a few hours after see who's out there okay well it's a pleasure uh well
I'm just south of Boston so I hope you have a pleasant trip back over here when you
during the Chinese New Year or whenever you get a chance
uh we'll probably eventually get some snow although there was no guarantees although we have had one
year we had four feet of snow in early April so wow wow we don't I mean yeah we don't uh put away
our snow shovel until the fat lady is definitely song a good bit because the weather around here can be
very random anyway pleasure to meet you sir take care of yourself and I'll talk to you down the road
with any luck yeah same to you uh we'll see how far you got with your setup when I'm back with
yeah well uh with the high traffic here I may have plenty of time to set up the other machine
and maybe log in for a minute all right see you thank you for no take care by the way love craft
our our things in your neck of the woods good good yeah it's a pretty lousy weather but uh it's not
not super cold but it's a little bit better today it was kind of just dreary and rainy a couple days
this week and kind of like just colder but you know no snow yet so we're hanging in there yep um
um is Janelle singing today I know not today well anyway give her my best I was fleet food set
it settling in he's doing good he got some new stuff for cat Christmas and he's uh he's loving
his new toys we got him in a yet another bed and he's got a bunch of stuff to play with so he's
actually taking a nap right now well I have to say again your your cards are very touching
oh no you're welcome most sorry about your loss but uh you know figured I'd send you a couple
holiday cards too yeah as I I really like the snowman card you cut hail yeah that that was a
that was a funny one on the go got to get that one yeah oh by the way back back along we had two
power failures in one day which is more than we've had in a couple years yeah I got your email
about that um things been more stable since then or what's happening here it's been more stable uh
I guess north of here they they're still thrashing uh dealing with with stuff from you know
Christmas are pretty Christmas storms you add do you have a a UPS or anything like that or
considering one or actually I don't um nope uh I don't have power go down that much uh also it would
be a little hard to organize um I mean I could get one for my networking stuff but then I'd have to
have one for one of the machines uh and one of the machines hooked into good power so
that would be a little tricky yeah it sounds like you would need vulnerable ones and I mean if
it doesn't happen that often maybe it's I know it's a you know you got to determine whether uh
whether it's worth it or not for for your needs we're we're pretty fortunate where we we rarely
ever have any any power issues here think we've had two blips in almost five years um and one of
them was actually not too long ago and I heard a a transformer explode on one of the uh one of the
streets behind us and um that was resolved in about probably about 25 to 30 minutes so not a not a
huge deal I need to step away for a moment but I'll be back uh give my best to everybody
on a pot of outbound or two I'll get you ahead okay bye
well it's five o'clock somewhere and I guess it's uh happy new year somewhere else I don't know where
did it just get quiet in here all of sudden but not all of sudden it's been a little bit
hey nobody's anything to say for a little while uh nobody's saying anything for a while I've
been listening but um kind of buying my own business I'm up to talk if somebody wants to talk
Bob Bob there we go okay now is it working I don't know
hello hello uh can you hear me I can hear you can you hear me you just sound just lovely uh I've seen
your thing go on and off but uh couldn't hear anything uh huh yeah that's what I thought I don't
know what I did but all of a sudden uh I went into the configuration and the mic wasn't working
and I clicked something and didn't shouldn't have changed anything I was working now so thank you
is that what that auto test thing is for I guess so if it's not working you've got to test it
somehow yeah it's it's working just fine I've been sitting here quiet for a couple of hours I've
nothing going on here for last 20 to 30 minutes so we aren't getting ready to see this year out
always pretty well gone I wish for 2024 is that people start using their own brains instead of
photocopying others okay I did my research means I looked at 15 other people that think the same way
I do and I'm in an echo chamber oh wait that's the way I do it oh wait no it's not
most people around these parts don't sadly Linux is not the number one desktop either
well I'm I'm on a Linux desktop on a six seven eight euro laptop right now so uh and I don't
do any social media at all the end of that come off I believe sounded like I'm on a Linux deck really
okay um I don't know it's I said I was I'm on a Linux desktop on a laptop actually uh that's
about seven or eight years old um using Ubuntu and I don't do any uh social media yeah I don't
do much social media uh most of the social media is there to steal from you not to actually
provide a social input I spend half my time reading uh these privacy statements and then don't do
whatever it is that I was going to do but until after I read the uh read things so yeah um
don't sign in for much stuff well I am on telegram and discord and I this year joined
mastodon and that seems to be mostly okay at least nobody can buy it actually those yeah those
are okay those are um your face to face with other people and you can judge as you go it's not
where somebody is scraping everything you type like a Facebook or
X or whatever the others are yeah I left X a couple years ago I left uh Facebook about five
years ago can't talk my wife into getting off it that at least I taught her how to put on the
uh container in Firefox for Facebook my wife um it has a uh an iPhone and she doesn't use
social media stuff but she's also non-franable as far as uh she says which button to push don't
don't explain stuff to me so if you can't tell her things oh that's rough yeah I can't tell
her anything and um she's actually going out to get an iPad now my wife pretty tech savvy I like
her to be a little bit more but she has been too injured to work for the past seven years and she
just got an esurgery and is having another one in February and after that she should be okay and
she wants to come in and start learning audio editing which I don't know very well but I know
better than nothing I think you can do that with a sore knee yeah but you can't get down and
she can't get down the hall into my room and have a place sit with uh the way her knees have been
coming down the hall she she was she was walking on two canes now after the um after the surgery
she's on a walker but that will go away eventually but not until after the other knee sounds like
maybe you need to move down the other end of the hall and help her out I can't do that the room
is where the room is we've got about nine hundred eighty square feet of trailer here single wide
it's a very wide single wide but still single okay what's all the computers in one end the
she's in the other end hey Joe what's up I heard you before I just my microphone wasn't working oh
that's okay by uh speakers weren't working uh uh uh mumble is primitive but you can usually
figure it out yeah you didn't get to see my wonderful intro I did not here I've reposted just
let's see here and here and there you go I am a little busy I just rebuilt my entire computer
which one what's your thing lovely see this is why I don't have a certain
oh it's also my garage it multitask I keep a copy on my external drive a copy on an external
usb and a copy on box.com and if anything gets lost I can just find where it isn't lost yet
what's lost anything I don't have to rebuild stuff if things if things go down I just reinstall
sorry the the arrogance of not knowing or carrying what a server is good for
oh hey except that I tap into yours rather often right right right well my my flex is currently
rebuilding uh think we're only right right now we're only on the practice and suits on your flex
you're on nothing much right this second how my flex stressed me um there's a lot of
shows we're not watching but I'm not asking for them because I don't know if we want to watch them
I noticed that Marvel has a new what day up out yeah that's a TV show though yeah well that's
all he watches TV shows we do an occasional movie think our current list is down to eight shows that
are not either out of episodes or now that they they may or may not reboot for another season
yeah they're during that limbo yeah prime added a whole bunch of stuff and moved it to free
v and then they keep saying that they have limited ads on free v and we've never seen one
so I'm wondering if our browser just kicks those out the audio bookshelf is rebuilding too
which sucks I was really hoping those settings would save uh yes they didn't hey Jo I've been
reading in a few other series you might be interested in uh I got to get my phone I'll
I'll be right back I'll get my tablet I guess okay okay
okay I'm back with my ears aren't your ears hair boy ah there we go
man this is gonna take so long yeah well I'm sorry I had to do it but oh it needed to do it
and I needed to upgrade the the SSD and I need it and I was already taking the thing apart to put
in the graphics card that builds on me so uh but I'm gonna mess with them I'm gonna mess with it
and tell them that I got another um a record player instead of a the graphics card so
just just well I have really been enjoying the 10th airport chronicles or adventures
but there's only three books in that series have you read the author's name in the bubble novels um
I've been reading it to my wife and she's really been getting into it before um I've been talking
you about uh get commit murder right seek will get sink murder right that author is Michael Warren
Lucas who's written about 40 books it seems oh come on where is it now you were previously
talking about a book series um that you you would read to your wife and then some of them on the
phone uh was it the demon accord demon squad demon squad oh yeah dim marquise it's great
dim marquise right right uh if you like that series you might like um sandman slim sandman what slim
um well here's the one I really think you'll like and I've got the case files of unre-daven fourth
um the first book is called the shinigami detective the second is terms and death and explosions oh
my and they're I think ten or eleven books in that series now I'm trying to look up the author
here is not doing a good job of showing me um garden um
a magic in the shinigami detective is the name of the first novel
I'm really really really glad that I did like a backup of my um
virtual machine uh the author's name is honor racon tour and she has a few other series as well
but now I gotta recreate all my automation apparently this crazy witch on this planet was uh
dragging various people in from other planets uh through magical portals and uh torturing them
and only one actually survived and that one was of course from earth and actually wound up being
able to break the neck of the witch in escape and but she stuck on this very earth-like planet
where about two-thirds of the things are familiar but other things are not
and it is uh
tend to say in um discord because it sounds interesting
okay beat beat beat beat it is really good um I'm enjoying it my wife's really enjoying it I
haven't read it to ronda yet uh see where is joe there is joe joe
did
okay perfect okay all right so next plot next plot next plot next plot
I set up the snap, but I don't know if that worked or not.
All right, so here's the first one.
So what are you running today, Joe Mint?
Yeah.
All right.
I'm caught up on my discord.
Where did I put it?
What are we looking for, Joe?
Next cloud files.
Ah.
I'm currently backing up the, I'm back to backing up the Mint cast.
Next cloud.
Now I have to reset up my next cloud.
Well, I'm glad you got a backup there.
I was wondering how we were going to do that.
Yeah.
So technically challenged.
Well, Bill has backed up.
Bill, talk about me driving up and taking as equipment.
If he passed, I'm going, I wouldn't know what equipment to grab.
What?
I take the whole room.
I think I saw some family in the South Bend area.
Hmm.
I don't think I know of.
Make a call.
This is her everywhere, but not very often in large quantities.
I do not know of any relatives in South Bend.
No more cocoa.
I was talking to somebody last night.
Nobody was using voice.
I was just, we were texting back and forth.
Hmm.
And, uh.
No, I saw somebody had the Jitsi setup, but I don't think anybody was using it.
I didn't know there was a Jitsi.
And if you look at one of the, the user names, it gives the Jitsi details.
Jitsi, the Linux, the dev slash logcat.
Ah.
Okay.
So, can.
Well, you know, I've got one of those faces that's great for radio.
Ken is doing the recording today.
Yes.
I suppose that's because honky wasn't going to be able to close it in a proper amount of time,
because he has to do that whole work thing.
Well, I barely woke up.
My lungs haven't cleared all the junk yet.
I hear you.
I need to plug in my keyboard.
It needs power.
Can you hear it, Joe?
Hey, Mordancy.
I was wondering if I was going to hear it from you.
Oh.
That sounded pretty bad, Mordancy.
The amount plus a lot going to go in Disney a long time ago.
So, it was not on your server or Amazon Prime video, then we're not watching it now.
Oh, that's not quite true.
We are also using 2B for a couple of shows, but we could watch those on Amazon Prime.
2B is interesting.
I've tried to get into Pluto a few times, but the way it works on screen with the keyboard is not very fun.
The scheduler does not move very palm intuitively.
Hey, my dog's dying.
Well, 2023 wasn't the worst year ever.
It's just a continuation of those that were with some improvements.
The shelter is not open for me to take her in to have her put down properly.
Huh?
My dog is dying.
I did not hear that part.
I just heard the shelter is not open.
All right.
How old is she?
13.
Hmm.
What breed?
She's a lab mix.
She can't walk anymore as of today.
Oh, man.
That's not that old for a lab.
Her hips just...
Yeah.
It just plays as really bad on labs and retrievers.
And she refuses to eat.
That's just in breeding.
Two of our three cats are going to turn 11 in April.
So now you have to find a way to get to see Dan's mom's hair cut.
I sort of heard what your wife said if that was her.
Not on my end.
Oh.
Well, somebody...
Somebody was talking like way off in the background.
And it looked like it was on your end.
Oh, love.
Nobody's talking here.
My bad.
Well, I know net miners out right now.
I know love crashes out right now.
And we heard Mordancy go this week, this week.
You're like, where are you going?
I'm hurting our eardrums.
I'm sure.
Maybe it was too toast.
What?
Can...
Can you hear me?
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
Oh, my mistake.
Sorry, guys.
My girlfriend's talking to her sister on the phone.
I didn't realize the...
I'm pretty sure you were vaping earlier, too.
Oh, that was...
Sorry, guys.
I just reinstalled my cellphone and the settings are all goofed up.
I was vaping right back.
I figured we were trying to communicate that way.
Yeah, I'm back for a minute.
I've been...
Had to reinstall MX Linux.
So didn't prepare the SSD properly.
Yeah, I've been having some troubles with Mint and LMDE lately.
And so I'm in my trusty stand by a Bodie.
Nobody uses Bodie.
I don't know why.
It's the greatest.
After they released the latest version 7, it jumped all the way up to 35 on distrawatch
as if anybody cares.
But it generally hangs around 50 or lower.
Oh, guys.
I'm going to step away and hopefully reboot this properly.
Yeah, just had to erase the SSD.
So it would expand properly once I get things loaded.
Anyway, I'll be back.
That's what they all say.
One day.
So how's your family taking your dogs' illness?
Well, considering I'm the only one awake.
Ah, so they don't even know how bad she is.
Well, they knew that she was getting bad.
And my wife knows that we...
You're the only one awake.
She is even awake for me to be waking up, you know?
Right.
Me and Jackie were discussing the fact that...
that the dog would need to be put down.
But she doesn't know that the dog is as bad as she is right now.
Because yesterday she was still able to get around.
Yeah.
And there really is no place open.
They don't have emergency hospitals there.
Maybe, but I mean, we've known that this was coming for a while now.
I don't know if any place around me that is open and will do that service.
I don't know, but you're in that of the woods.
But I had to bring my dog, or he got hit on the throat from another dog.
I was on a Saturday and I had to bring my dog to an emergency clinic.
And just to walk through the door, it was $600 on the spot for an emergency hospital.
Yeah.
I don't have that.
I don't have that right now.
So...
Yeah.
I mean...
That's like I had a stainless steel coffee pot that the thermostat was set too high and eventually burned out.
And it's about a 50 cent part.
But I don't know what I'm doing.
And I called around the various shops and they had $125 bench fee.
I'm going down.
I could buy another coffee pot perhaps.
I mean, yeah, it was a 50 cup.
I replaced it with a 30 cup.
But that's because I was too cheap to buy the 60 cup that was by the same company.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio doesn't work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
