Episode: 4172
Title: HPR4172: Re: hpr4072 Piper voice synthesis
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4172/hpr4172.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:41:47

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4172 for Tuesday the 30th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, Read for Piper Voice Synthesis.
It is part of the series' accessibility.
It is hosted by Archers 72 and is about 5 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archers 72 demonstrates using the OPT directory for the Piper executables.
Hello, this is your host, Archers 72 for Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, I revisit using the Piper Voice Synthesis program, but instead of installing
it with Python PIP, I use the OPT directory.
First, I make their dashp for parent.
A directory that says it's OPT-bin Piper, and then I chone for change owner recursively to
the user, which is me on the laptop, and change the owner of OPT-bin Piper to me.
Then I go back and get clone the repo from Piper.
Before that, if I'm on a devian machine, I pseudo-apped install CMake, which is the only
dependency for making Piper.
Then I CD into Piper, type make, wait a few minutes, and the resulting files are in
the install directory.
So I copy install slash Piper asterix, which gets both Piper applications, and then
I drop it in OPT-bin Piper in a similar fashion.
I copy from the install directory, lib asterix to capture all the libraries, and copy them
to OPT-bin Piper also.
To utilize Piper, in a basic fashion, you use the ExecuteFand EXEC OPT-bin Piper slash
Piper.
You will need voices to output the text to a wave file.
You do that by pseudo-apped install git-lfs, which stands for large file system.
Then in the git directory, you git-lfs space install, and then git clone the repository
that I'll put in the show notes, and then CD into Piper voices.
From here, you can try out a voice by typing quote, this sentence is spoken first.
This sentence is synthesized while the first sentence is spoken, unquote.
Pipe that to EXEC execute slash OPT-bin slash Piper slash Piper dash dash model EN slash
EN underscore GB for Great Britain, and we're going to try a Southern English female voice,
slash low, slash EN underscore GB, Southern English female low, and it's always going to
be a dot on X, O, and NX, and then you dash dash output to voice dot wave.
Now we will demonstrate the voice by inserting the wave file from the resulting command.
This sentence is spoken first. This sentence is synthesized while the first sentence is spoken.
That's all I have for now. Feel free to record a show of your own so we can continue this
great project. This has been Archer72 for Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio as Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the Internet Archive and
R-Sync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Retribution 4.0 International License.
