Episode: 4174
Title: HPR4174: Of the Mic and the Mop
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4174/hpr4174.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:45:21

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4174 for Thursday the 1st of August 2024.
Today's show is entitled, of the Mike and the Mob.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 45 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, the response to the future of Hacker Public Radio.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
This is in response to Episode 4109, the future of HPR, where nightwise challenge just to
look at HPR from the point of view of marketing a business.
I too am in the woods and I too am recording it here.
So let's see how far we get with the response.
So a good episode, this isn't necessarily about the feedback itself or the response from
the shows.
I think I'm taking a different approach and a different tack to it and so different
and a fact that it had me wondering why I'm taking so different attack and different
approach to it and the delay in doing the show and indeed the 15,000 attempts that
I've met so far, I've recording the show, is testimony to how difficult it is to do
this without offending people or to try and put vocalize my thoughts into words and
communicate with you guys.
So let's do our best to do that, shall we?
So nothing wrong with the show itself, nothing wrong with the response show and as far as
the goals, nightwise, obviously successful marketing career, obviously great idea for
bloggers, social media users, new podcasters about how to increase the audience and get
out there and spread the word about your message and your brand, no problem there with
that.
I mean, which of us don't want to go look mum, I'm on Spotify when our show is released.
You know, there's a buzz and it's the currency with which we pay our horse.
That is what we do.
So that is the response to the show itself and whether it's discord or not, really,
I'll get into that later to me, that's a tangent that isn't really important.
We're already, it's a platform and as far as I see it, there may be all the young folk
on there, but in 19 years, they're all going to be great beers as well.
So we, I think need to, yes, get those in, encourage them to come.
So I'll leave that to you guys to do that on that platform.
We're doing something similar on Mastodon, on Matrix and we're maintaining channels like
Twitter and Facebook because we kind of have to and it's our responsibility to do that.
So if anybody wants, you know, there's a new platform comes out in the morning and you
want to support that and you feel comfortable with doing that, you know, it's prepared
to open source, whatever, then feel free to do it.
But don't make it an official HPR channel unless you're going to do the, you know, official
channel to work, which means doing the hard slog, being in there every day and literally
mean every day that somebody is answering messages responding with the HPR line and stuff,
that's your personal opinion, that you're giving advice on how to record the flag, where
how to upload, walking people through the upload process, you know, doing all the hard,
hard slog.
If you're just having a place to chat, that's also fine, but make sure it's a, a HPR unofficial
channel that people don't start, we've added it in the past with an unofficial, well, official
IRC channel that people were on and took us ages to figure out what the person, somebody
says that there was a lot of hateful stuff going on there, but our channel where we discussed
the official HPR channel didn't have any of that.
So it took me ages to figure out what was going on and they, I only twigged what was happening
when in the recent move from C panel on stuff, there was, they shut down a IRC channel over
there that I'd never even known about, but okay, and they've been read stuff.
So yeah, if you're going to do that and HPR, by the way, is a community project, so if you
want to do stuff and if you're suggesting it, the assumption is you're going to do it and
that's great, but don't for a moment think that a full platform of choice is out there and
everybody's jumping on the wagon that we have unlimited resources to go and maintain and manage
that. Yes, of course we do, if you provide them. So we is very much eye here on the HPR.
So yeah, so the mic and the mop is kind of the theme of which I want to talk to you about today.
So we have the mic, that's, you know, that's the discussion and the last discussion we had as well
was about, you know, is HPR a podcast network or is it a podcast? And essentially they're the same
thing. It's like, is a car a means of transport or is it is it my car? I know that's a bad analogy,
but okay, and essentially the same thing, but one I don't want to be working on on the other I do,
and it comes down to what the platform is, and HPR is a podcast that is dedicated to sharing
knowledge, and that was in place it in my understanding when I became a podcaster because it was
said often enough, and it was understood. But in moving from C panel, I'll just give you some
background because I'll be talking about it all the time in case you don't know. If we cover
this on the community news as well, by the way, every, every month, and Dave will now be posting
community news summary and the other business summary in the mail list letter that goes out
every month to remind people. So if you're not on the mailing list, it's usually very quiet.
Months can go past without anybody commenting, so you'll get the summary of what's been going on
in that. So this is all covered anyway. We've been very, very, very, very, very busy moving from
a lamp stack where every case on the website requires a regeneration of the page to
a website that's generated using scripts, and it's regenerated several times a day, and then
that facility is cashing, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. What it also facilitates is your ability
as a person to take it and host it first. So the idea of mirroring the HPR website
is something that we very much want to encourage, and as part of the plan, to be able to withstand
denial of service attacks against the Internet Archive, that whole media, and against the HPR
website. So this is something that we want to encourage, and we've been working on.
So for me, the crux of the matter comes down to the difference between how I see
what was discussed, how I view it, and how I view other social media platforms.
I see other social media platforms as our competitors, and I see the requests that I made that,
you know, we need more hosts. I see that as being a recruitment campaign rather than a publicity
campaign. So let me go through those, those two real quick here. First, these other platforms
are our competitors, because, and I've just written some text here, I'll read it out to you.
First of all, they vie for the time and attention of our hosts, and worse, they satisfy the
intrinsic desire to contribute to a discussion. And each discussion that absence outside of HPR
is a potential show that has not been sent in, looking at this like a business for a second.
You should never drive traffic to another platform, unless you have a business relationship with
them. More so from a free liberal and open source point of view. Each discussion is owned by the
hosting platform and not us, and if you're back given on those platforms is locked away in their
silos, under their terms and conditions, and is considered their intellectual property.
They're never going to be available with the show itself, so the future generations can see
the discussion in and around the topic. Okay, so that's that's my view on other platforms,
and other platforms are very good at taking our stuff, which of course they should, because
creative commons were dedicated to sharing knowledge, and you have a business idea, and all of
a sudden you have all this content, hours upon hours upon hours of it, and you can pull it in for
free, and even better, all you need to do is pull in a tiny little XML file, and the hosting and
everything is done on somebody else's website, so there's zero cost to you, am I better? No,
no, actually, I'm not. That's that's what it is, but we also need to be that's what we're doing,
where we're sharing, we're allowing our content to be shared, but we need to be smart about just
more on that later, so we should be using these platforms. Discussions, there's a line for me in
the sounds that you need to draw. Are you, and if you deviate it over there, this should be a show
line, then make sure and voice that, say, this could have been a show, or this would make a great show,
just copy and paste that in, and we'll make it a show on HPR. So what you should be doing is
encouraging people, giving them feedback, positive, oh, I really enjoy that show, and that really
fixed bug for me, or that that's the currency with which we pay our whole. So always, always, always
give the feedback and stuff, but when it goes to a point where the discussion has been held,
there and not here on the HPR, that's when we cross the line, okay? So recruitment, not a publicity
campaign. So if we were a podcast network, we would be about publicizing each individual host,
or each individual series, et cetera, but while we need to do that, absolutely, that's not a problem,
these are not mutually exclusive goals, they are more or less the same thing. We hear our
on a recruitment campaign to get holes. So what I need you to understand is that when you say if
all we need to, we need more holes. Oh, let's get more listeners. Yeah, that never worked for me,
and it's always bug me, and I spend so much time analysing it, and if I can share you this thought
here. So just because you buy a lot of products at Amazon, doesn't mean you necessarily want to work
for Amazon. So while a company doesn't care who buys their products as long as it's sold,
they very much do care about who they hire, and spend a lot of time and money recruiting
the right people. So that is, that is that. That's easy enough for me to say, but you can say,
well, Ken, I was a listener before I started contributing to HPR, and I go, yes, but you're
statistically insignificant as far as it goes to us. Let me run down the numbers. So the total number
of people who have subscribed to HPR since the project began is close to two and a half million
people. And that is not just people who heard about HPR, that is people who took the time to
copy and paste the URL back in the day into a podcasting client or press the button and press
subscribe to get the feed. In total, we have had 359, I think since since then we've had 360
and that is only 0.01 percent. So our conversion rate from listeners to subscribers, our listeners
to contributors is 0.015 percent statistically insignificant. And that would mean if we're
increasing the number of listeners, we would need to get 6,814 new listeners in order to gain one
host. So and that of course is assuming that all the hosts are listeners, which they're not. A lot
of people don't even subscribe to the show and send in shows that don't need to be. Only janitors
need to listen to the shows. We make a point of doing so. So you might say, yeah, but that is a
listener. Yes, you may well have been, but you were probably also kind of open to the whole idea
of sharing and contributing code. Possibly felt that you couldn't do that and then podcasting
came along. I listened to a lot of podcasts and then you hear HPR and you go, yeah, I want to contribute.
So that's great. Recently we have been using the reserve queue more. I'm putting in
information that this is coming from the reserve queue. So that is actively being using the feed a
lot more to encourage people to send in shows. And I think that's great. So in that case, those people,
yes, you absolutely were influenced by the feed. But for the most people, that has not been the case.
The reserve feed has been actually a very good thing reserve queue because what it's allowed
us to do is tackle two of the more fundamental problems that we've had on HPR, which is the
on one hand, they both stem from the law of supply and demand. And it's the leaky bucket effect
is well known. It's a well-known problem. It's a bursty traffic. So I've been working in the
TV industry for the last 24 years. And we have like RF networks and they send out
impact streams. And it's you know exactly how many bits has been sent out. And then you get
that fed from an IP network. And that's all bursty. So how do you how do you tackle that? How do you
make sure that you have the right number of packets coming in and going out? And how you do that
is by buffering. So you will see the classic. Now the people have moved to IBTV and there's
the football game on or you know cricket or whatever. And your local team, the national team
was scored a goal back in the day. You would have heard everybody cheering at the same time because
it's all guaranteed stream at the same time because it's over broadcast network. Now you hear
people on ZIGO shouting first. And then you hear people on KPN, you're shouting second. And then
you have people one half seconds later shouting. And then the poor people on the dial up on
internet explorer, they shout five minutes later. So yeah, it's real time is is a lot different
because of the buffering effect. So our buffering mechanism is the reserve queue. And I will be doing
more detailed show on how we can social engineer the queue later as one of the many, many piles
of notes beside my bed. But long and short of it is that that has been very good from the point of
view of making people aware that there are holes in the queue because what we've had is
holes getting burned out by looking at the queue. Potential, the janitors and you if you've been
monitoring the queue and you've been seeing that there are gaps and then you rush in a show
and you go oh I'm putting in the show here and then you hear two shows from somebody at the same
week and it gives the sense of the show has been rushed and that the quality might not be as good
because there's been a call for shows. So the reserve queue gets rid of that. So there's two aspects
to the to the quality of a show. One is the audio quality which I'll talk about later but
the content quality there's no reason to be concerned. If you've got time to do a few shows
throw them into if they're about recent releases of software or their interview with somebody.
If they're timely put them into the regular queue. If they're not so timely and above variables
and whatever, pop them into the reserve queue to be as fresh over there as they were on the day
that they released and don't say oh I've rushed in this show because blah blah blah that's
immediately the first thing of public speaking is don't start I'm not used to public speaking because
that frames people you know it frames people's minds this is going to be a bad show and oh this is
nah I'm just going to delete this. No you've taken the time to record the show whether it's
rushed or not or you spent five minutes or not or you spent like I've done here literally four
months on an episode more or less nonstop trying to write notes and stuff. Sometimes it just
flows out of one take other times it takes ages so let that not be a that the amount of time that
it took you to generate the show let that not be a blocker or an impediment or people don't
need to know basically that's it. Another thing is the audio quality there's no need to submit
poor audio quality but we'll talk about that later so that's the reserve queue has done two
things it's it's made people aware that there are vacant slots and we need to fill them up so if you
hear a reserve show send us in a slot develop that would be great let's move on to the next thing so
where exactly do we get our hosts so I did a plot on the number of subscribers versus the number
of new hosts when hosts joined the network for the first time so that's something that we have
in the database and that's something that we can plot so they monthly subscribers
increases from 40,000 to 120,000 between 2010 and 2022 and for the same period of time we have plotted
the number of new hosts so from 2010 to 2016 we get a host joining a rate of about three per month
and then between 2016 and 2023 we see that the new host rate drops to about one every two months
so that basically tells us something but if you didn't know what was going on between 2010 and 2016
you might be at a bit of a loss and what we were doing then was we were very active at Linux
Fests and Meetups and events and stuff like that and we had a boot kit which was a HPR tabletop
with HPR logo and if you were HPR host you could sign the tabletop I have both of them now
we had one for the US and we had one for Europe we had banners at the back and we had stickers
people contributed money for stickers and mugs and all sorts of shwag and stuff like that
and that is the thing that helped us to grow as a project not grow listener wise but grow as a project
itself the growth has listener wise that's been taken care of by the platforms they're taking our
feed it's free for them it's like just easy money it's easy exposure getting the host that's
that's the problem and that comes via one-to-one contact and better at a smaller event in my personal
opinion as we were at FOSTEM and we had a big table great event fantastic exposure for HPR
loads of people came loads of people found out about us it did increase subscriber numbers it
did increase the number of people who are following us on the channels etc on the various
different social media but I'm not sure for all the effort and work that went into it that we got
the level of new host contributions that I was expecting smaller events tend to be
uh tend to be better I guess and thinking about that I reckon um you know you're a FOSTEM
everybody's got their own project that they're already busy with and they're they're into that
and they're dedicating all their spirit time to that whereas um and you're asking them to
contribute via HPR and they're asking for collaboration and doing interviews and that's fine
getting interviews from them as fine and stuff but they're already busy with their project
and they're not so busy with with wanting to pick up another one because contributing
issues it's it's a big thing it's not like you've got five minutes where you sit and done the
smallest room in the house and uh you respond to your social media posts and you uh or you've got
some time on the train or whatever and you can type out a response and on your blog there's
there's more to it than that you need to do a little bit of planning while you don't need to do
any of this some people who just you know posted notes on a way you go uh how the time to record
the shows and stuff that's that's there's more involved you you want me at least I want a
rough overview of what I'm going to talk about um sailing and points I tend to do the show notes
first and then I talk about the stuff that I'm going to talk about and then um finding finding
quite a place uh to record right now I'm in the middle of the forest I look so crazy walking
up and down here in between this path that I see other people have decided to to buy skill around me
but that's that's fine so yeah um getting commitment that's a big thing smaller events are
better because um you have time to dedicate to target in at the people themselves to
communicate your message be one to one um guide them through it maybe you know
record an interview with them as first um and then say well you know if I hadn't asked you the
questions and you just did it then you would have been the host and that would have been on your
CV CV resume is HPR something that you want to put it on your CV and resume hmm let's talk about
that later so if we've got a hundred thousand people coming to your SS feed how many people are
coming to the website I'm higher they're coming to the website so we're just talk of um you know
funneling people and channeling people and you know uh doing data analysis on the website to see
where people are coming from or they're going to an hour we can optimize that journey etc for doing
all that let's look and see what actual what's the actual usage of the website so
if I exclude bots and stuff related to the urss feed so show notes pages um your pdf documents the
upload page etc stuff like that even comments then we get two thousand hits uh a month and of those
200 are related specifically to non-shall stuff and of that 200 are reckon maybe 25% is janitors
updating pages or checking stuff from wherever so you could say well if there's only 200 people a month
what's the point what's the point in having the website well it struck me and it was a revelation
as a result of doing this and listening to this episode so thanks nightwise and everybody else
is concerned if you're going to the website you're not there to get the shows that's covered by
the urss feed you're there to consider contributing the show you're there perhaps to consider accepting
request for an interview you're there to consider whether you approve our booth or not or you're there
to consider whether this project is something that you want your kids to be associated with or
do you want um do you want to sponsor us in some way so you're coming there because you're
interested in the project project project you're coming there because you're interested in the project
and not because you want to listen to the podcast my blowing obvious probably to everybody else
except me but so that is a huge thing and um what it means is is that the website's out of date
and the index page at least needs to be reorganized a little uh a little bit um and I think the best
example I've come across has been um pepper and carrot now those that's a a cartoon um episode
web comic and free liberal open source crich commons very much like us very much that the urss
feed is the main entry to the project um in fact it was only recently that I even went to the
website they they way they uh everything is rendered it is gorgeous wouldn't be appropriate for us
but it is gorgeous they flow on the website and the flow on the um on the mobile site is flawless
and they concentrate on having who we are what we do here's the latest few posts they just
temple so we could have the uh last 10 shows the last two weeks just a one line summary on the page
that you can get to them we could have the menu up at the top um more or less the same menu that we
have now but also who we are what we stand for uh and our code and conduct because we do actually have
a code of conduct um it has been very much uh not formal in in any respect and that's the
word actually it's just be respectful to everybody um we don't i feel need to list everybody out
as far as i'm concerned we're a very binary project either you have submitted a show
to hbr or you have yet to submit a show to hbr that is that is the only distinction i personally see
i see no reason to be disrespectful to anybody and yes we have topics that are heavy
and yes we have agreed protocols on how to deal with that uh the uh warning at the beginning
the giving people the you know the time to press the delete button or press pause because you
listen to it in the car with the kids and in the middle of random shuffle of kids songs
on comes some heavy subject from hbr so give people give people the time to introduce it
and don't just bulldoze over everybody so we have uh we have the concept of jwp's granny
which we've used on many occasions and yeah well i won't say jwp's granny hbr's granny
Henry Patrick Riley's granny has been around seen a lot of things
knows that some people you know sometimes you got a curse but if you're going to do it you're
going to do it in the outhouse etc etc etc so um that we need to formalize and of course
just because um because of the consolidation of all the pages into one about page we have loads
about their freedom and that we don't we don't uh monitor your show but we expect you to do that
what we don't have is as much references to the hbr is dedicated to sharing knowledge which is what
we're doing everything comes down to that they the free free software licenses they creative
commons license they taking our time in our day we're dedicated to sharing knowledge that should
be right there boom on the main web page um and of course you have the freedom to say whatever you
want we're not going to uh we don't monitor what you upload or or edited in any way that's originally
started from the feeling that where a group appears so we don't we don't feel like we should
you know why why will we have a right to dictate what you say or not it's freedom of expression
however it also works for the DMCA so if if we can we get some legal coverage enough but that's not
to say that we are not an organization that has rules and values we do and as such um just because
you're free to say whatever you want doesn't mean we're not free to say well you're not allowed
just we don't want it over here that doesn't fit with our values it's like you know i think of it
like a um like hacker space you come in and you basically take a big turn on the on the kitchen
table yeah i'm sure you're free to do that but we don't want you back you can you can take that
turn and bring it right outside thank you very much so yeah uh so moving on so just one thing
about hpr as a project it's kind of different it's the long tail as they say in the media um and this
is why we have the intro and outro that we currently have with the date and time so that people
get a sense of if you're listening to the show you know how current it is or was it relevant or
do i need to go back and correct them on that no probably not because it's 10 years old
but um that also extends to contributions so we've had a lot of contributions from hosts
we're actually quite a big project 360 people and that doesn't count all the people who contributed
their time their money met stickers sold stuff for us um bought bought book kits shipped stuff
it's been amazing it's it's an amazing project and uh yeah just it's it's cool to be associated
with that and that's why i i reluctant to have hpr on my cv and i shouldn't be so i want
to remove that and give a guarantee that if you go to the hpr website you're going to um you're
not going to be in any way threatened or it's not going to in any way risk your job or reflect
poorly on you now we're going to have to do all of that obviously via the mail list and discussions
and and get approval for all of this because when we say we're janitors means we don't make the
decisions uh sometimes we don't even make the proposals but this is a proposal that i think we
need to do uh to make they to make the the website and the project itself feel like something that you
be proud of and that you're happy to show that to an employer now that is implications as well
which we'll discuss in the mailing list and uh which we'll tweak out and deal with respectfully
because we're not going to throw out the baby with the back bathwater we will um be respectful of
the freedom of speech thing um but it's also important to note that you know in the last few years
we have been under attack controls and we have been under attack from spanners spammers and under
attack from people who have been actively trying to uh hijack hpr for their own purposes so for
example um we have seen cases where commons have come in and within seconds of them being approved
another full text response has come in from a completely different IP address um in response
supporting that first comment uh stuff like that we've seen going on we've seen um you know the
what spam you kind of begin to sniff it out and there was a period there where we saw a lot of
suspicious activity going on so it is at that point actually that that's just when we need the
regulars on the mailing list to come in and go hey guys uh this is how we do things around here
and hpr as juniors we can't really say that so much we can't really express an opinion it's very
difficult for people to understand this can as a janitor i say this and can as a host i say this
two different things but hpr as well the government is not a democracy uh don't think it ever was
there's always been a hierarchy and there and it was incorrect it's correct to say that the
janitors don't have any say more than anybody else but that's also incorrect when we take off the
janitor hat and are speaking as hosts then i would like to think that people would take our opinions
seriously and that has happened a few times where we have said for example that with the copyrighted
music we didn't feel comfortable anymore posting copyrighted music and if somebody else wanted to
do that then that's fine they come on they take responsibility for that and they do that thing
um and so we are more in uh meritocracy meritocracy meritocracy meritocracy thanks Dave
changling my underdive there uh we are more a meritocracy when it comes to it that's um
you can bet that if uh tattoo puts in a one-liner uh with an opinion about something i'm going to
heed that more than some random four pages of text from somebody who is just a fly by night
i've never heard of i'm going to give him more weight that's not to say i'm going to completely
ignore the other person if they're not a spammer but you know where i'm coming from
yay it's it's a project and what pains me is when we're in the middle of this thing right we're
in the middle of controversies oh don't get me started about controversies every time i go on
holiday somebody decides to start a controversy and they're completely against our philosophy
of sharing knowledge they're great for getting new holes are new contributors uh listeners
they're great they're not great for getting new contributors in fact they're actually very bad
people stop contributing because of the controversies they're great for getting a few new
listeners for a period of time but then one thing settle off and this is not no longer the podcast
network dedicated to this particular form of wackiness that you're pushing then it goes back to
those people leave and we've not only lost listeners we've lost potential holes
worse we've lost actual holes and worse i see people leaving the mailing list and it's
right at that point that we need the people on the mailing list the most to come and support us
in a project and to say no that is not how we do things over here so that is that is the thing
beyond the mailing list support the project and i'll see i'll have a quick look here and see if
there's anything else that i felt that i needed to say i don't think there is i think it is
been enlightening to me to think oh yeah how many how many listeners we have so we're doing great
i mean there's no way we would get a hundred thousand 120 thousand subscribers a month
on discord or mastodon or twitter or anything else and yet the platforms we have these because
you know we're on Spotify because it's free we're on big google this facebook that we're on all
these platforms and we get that for free now what we want to do with that is yes improve the
experience so that these platforms take our feed and we have zero control over what what they do with
it so we've had we've had the assume for example that hpr podcast is just one host so the only
put the main host naming and not the name of the hosts themselves so that's a thing they don't
conform to the rss feeds which also means they don't necessarily bring in the licensing information
which means they don't also distribute they um is this um um more an adult show or not
it has a got a clean flag or not um they don't give you the data which was posted all this stuff
they just seem to put shows random order for uh no reason or whatever and this is another
reason why the intro and outro as the way it is is because we have to put this information into
the physical media otherwise you can't guarantee that it gets there so they are back in the day you
could guarantee if the rss feed was leading the host would have the rss feed and now they don't
and i see all of them in the logs now that even with the rss feeds um they're saying they will
just pop one line in and they'll cash the rss feed once a day and then some of them are decent
enough to say oh we got 500 subscribers on this particular feed which is nice of them but that
means i now need to analyze that so speaking of analytics we actually don't do any of that there's
no point for the website uh as you see 200 users 200 people users 200 visitors a month uh
visitors that's a nice nice name 200 visitors a month coming in uh no point you know they're there
to find out about the project and that's make that as nice as possible um and as far as the other
platforms are concerned i have no idea uh what they do but we should have an idea of what they do uh
that's valuable and that's something you can help out with and we already have had uh one person
volunteer to do that and more people can join um if you go to our uh uh webpage or email so
whatever talk to us on the social medias uh then we will put you in the right place so that we can
join a wiki uh create gittie wiki for your pod catcher and i was thinking something along the
lines of what lineage us is doing uh under the devices section and then in their sort of detailed
instructions about this field maps to that do they show this do they not show that ideally we
want to do this all from the one rss feed but if it's if it becomes a case where we've got
thousands of subscribers coming in on one one thing and they're using a completely proprietary
version of the rss feed that will break other ones other pod catcher we may need to have a separate
dedicated rss feed for these guys so we'll see how that goes in the fullness of time that is
something that you can do to help contribute yes let's speak of contributions that is one thing
that you can do to contribute that you make sure that your that the wiki page related to your pod
catcher is as good as it possibly can be and we can make dedicated rss feeds for your um platform
pod catcher of choice get it absolutely perfect and see if we can then merge those changes into the
main feed or if we need to um keep it separate bear in mind that even though you're volunteering that
still requires bandwidth from us and our bandwidth may be allocated to something else that something
else is priority zero is getting the shows in and out the door that's thing number one priority one
is accessibility issues that come in we will fix them if we can and then priority two is
dealing with what we think we can handle at that point in time and what we determine to be
important usually in support of zero or one but as i say it's a long-term project expect it to take
two years for your change to be implemented it might very well be there's five minutes because
it's an easy thing i'm on the train i'm logged in and it's an easy thing but it might be more involved
than that and it might not just fit in with the whole plan but we will see that's contributions
on the website obviously contribute to show a fewer listener and you have not contributed to show
please feel free to introduce yourself i like to think of hpr as a little bit like a hacker space
that's in a theater and not really sure that that's the case because we build a new theater every
day and the show is continually running anybody can go into episode three and listen to that show
so but if you think of it a little bit like a hacker space people might be supportive
give constructive feedback that's that's a good thing and spread the word in your work at your
community if you see things if you're looking scanning the crowd there and you go hold on that
person is really excited about this thing ask yourself would that thing be of interest hackers
if it is shove a microphone in their hand or if they don't want to take it shove a microphone
under their nose and say hey tell us about yourself and record that and post it as a show interviews
and that sort of thing pop those to the top of the queue social engineering show i'll talk about
that why that's important later um go to boots go to uh go to events ask for a booth as
as events we're going to be going to aug camp i will be giving a talk on hpr on uh harrick
amateur radio stuff on hpr so it's a series that i'm doing i will be giving a talk on that
on september the 14th and 15th down in paris at spectrum 24 conference so that's a good way
of talking about hpr but not talking about hpr if you know what i mean nudge nudge wink wink
and we will be at aug camp on the 12th and 13th i've submitted the same talk there
but hopefully we will also have the opportunity to have a boot at that event on the 12th and 13th of
october if there are any events coming up in your area or if there's a hacker space uh that
is local or a linux meetup or something like that even a work event give a presentation on hacker
public radio what we are what we do and why you should listen and with that i'd like to wrap it up
by thanking nudge wise for his very very thought provoking episode the amount of sleepless nights
that i've had jutting down north beside the bed but i think it's been a good thing and i feel
very revitalized in the project and i hope you can be as well and that youtube can tune in tomorrow
for another exciting episode of hacker radio you have been listening to hacker public radio
at hacker public radio does work today's show was contributed by a hpr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording podcast you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it
leads hosting for hpr has been kindly provided by an honest host.com the internet archive and
rsings.net unless otherwise stated today's show is released under creative commons attribution
4.0 international license
