Episode: 4403
Title: HPR4403: How to get your very own copy of the HPR database
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4403/hpr4403.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:17:20

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 4403 for Wednesday the 18th of June 2025.
Today's show is entitled How to Get Your Very Own Copy of the HBR Database.
It is hosted by Norrist and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is commands to download and query the HBR Database.
So on the most recent community news post for the most recent community news,
one posted a comment, Torin posted a comment, and there was a few different things in the comment,
but he kind of had a question at the end of the comment about there was a way to find all his previous comments.
So I'm going to do a quick episode about how you can use HBR Database
and you can find all of your comments or all of everybody's comments.
So all of the comments are in copy of the HBR Database
and the HBR Database is available on the internet.
It's refreshed periodically.
So you can download a copy of it, load it up, and then run some queries against it.
So step one in this process is you need a mass-equal compatible database.
I use MariaDB, but any of it won't work.
So sort of step one is installing mass-equal or Maria.
Step two would be making sure it's running and configured.
Step three is downloading a copy of the database.
In the show notes, I'll have a curl command to make sure you know how to do it, but it's really simple.
Then step, the next step is to load the database and to load the copy of the database into MariaDB.
And I'll have some commands and the show notes to do that, but basically what you do is run you.
You run a command to drop the database if it exists, and then you run another command to create an empty database,
and then you run a command to load up the data that you just downloaded using curl into MariaDB.
And then finally, once you have the data loaded into MariaDB, you can run queries again.
I'll have a sample query in the show notes specifically for Torin, but just to see how all of this comments,
but you can look at everybody's comments. They're all there.
You can look at episodes, you can look at reservations, there's lots of stuff.
Lots of interesting things in the HPR database, you could even take a look at and decide, you know, there's a really cool feature.
This database in this database has inspired me to do something unique and different, and then you can do a show about what you've done with HPR.
That's it, I'll see you guys next time.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
