Episode: 4171
Title: HPR4171: Al discusses the renovation of his bathroom
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4171/hpr4171.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:41:23

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4171 from Monday the 29th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, I'll Discusses the Renovation of His Bathroom.
It is hosted by Al and is about 12 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I'll share his experience of remodeling his bathroom, including the
techniques and tools he utilized.
Hi and welcome back.
My name is Al and this is my second episode.
I see that we are getting low on episodes on HPR, so yeah, let's call out to make sure
that you submit one.
Yeah, that's Dave.
You need to do one.
You tell your points.
You do one.
This is your call for action.
So, I'm going to do a quick one today, just regarding what I have been doing with my
bathroom.
I have, sort of, interested in a couple of people.
I have recently renovated my bathroom.
I'm in the UK, so if you're interested in the world or maybe in the UK, you're more
going to look at your building right before you carry out any work.
So when I made my hat back two years ago, the bathroom I had was a, I've been there for
like 30 years.
It's a horrible greeny kind of grey colour, but the problem is, it's my only bathroom
in the house.
So it took over like three months to do, and I replaced kind of all of the things I replaced.
And toy that the bath and the sink, the tools, kind of things, what I kind of use.
I had a list of all things that I think recommend that you probably need is I need the
pipe cutter, which basically cuts the copper pipe.
You need the 15 and the 22 mill.
You might need a pipe freeze, because if you're doing your hot taps, you don't have to
drain your whole of your hot water system.
It's not too much a problem if you have a comby boiler, but me, I've got an old type
boiler where the, where I've got a hot water tank.
And the other things is what I find really, you have a number of sizes of spanners, a
ceiling gun, and also a ceiling finishing tool.
So I managed to get, not like the same bathroom suite, the same other by one or set, we
all go, but I bought on my sink separately.
Starting with the sink, I brought a sink and a vanity unit, that was a bit funny.
I brought it with like one of these things with a cover underneath it, it turned up, and
I was always getting annoyed because they sent me the wrong unit, because the, that I couldn't
find out where the hole was, where you actually put the sink in, where there's like a cup,
kind of thing, like a U shape, where it sits in, but I managed to, I'd actually got
the sink unit upside down.
So knowing the all my, where I come to replace the, the sink, and you have to turn off the
water, because no one before put in valves, I would recommend if you are putting in taps
or anything, or any ceiling life, you bring the washing machine in, and you haven't got
a valve to turn the, to turn the water off near the device, I would recommend putting
a valve in there.
They are cheap and reasonable.
I wouldn't go for the really cheap ones, I would spend a good couple of five, ten pounds
on them, because the cheap ones just fail, and when you try and tell it off, the water
school comes out.
So with the great things with the, with the, with the, in the UK, you can get push-fitting.
So if you've got to, if you've got the copper, and you cut it off with the pipe cutter,
which is like a, I'll put a link in the description, but like it's around, circle, you
crimp it in and you just twist it around a number of times, it's got to be cutting blade
on it, and it cuts the pipe off.
Then you want to do, it's obviously before you do, you want to make your tender water off,
you can scrape it with a bit, I will do with a bit of cotton steel wool, and that makes
it nice thing.
Then you can get these push-fitting for the brewing, which you can just push on them,
and it will twist and lock, and then you've then got a stop and start, so you can stop
and pop, stop the water coming in there.
On that, you can then put in your plastic pipe, which is brewing because you can cut it
with, I brought a tool of Amazon, which you can just cut it, which you just whip it around
and it cuts it really nice, so you can cut it with a hacksaw.
The, the flowplaster, once I've put in the thing, can show you now, since you get this
little bun, you put it in and then you push it in and it locks, and then to unlock it,
you can just twist it and pull it out, and it's brilliant.
And then again, you can then get those adapters, which then go into your tap, which is brilliant.
So yeah, it's really easy.
You haven't got to do anything with soldering or anything, any more, yeah, we'll get you
get stuck under the sink, any more ton of solder or something, it's really easy.
Again, if you're doing the hot tap, if you're going to say you've got a hot water tank one,
you can use one of these treating kits, where you make sure that you don't run any hot water
for like an hour for it, so it's nice and cold.
You then put this like sleeve for it, put one cable tie at the bottom, stick in the, you
get like a can, like an aerosol can, which has got freezing it.
You freeze it all in, you put the can into the foam, you put it down in it, basically
freezes the pipe for good.
And then you've got like a couple of minutes while the water's frozen inside it, to cut
the pipe and then put your valve on it again.
Things I never put a bath in, so I took my old bath out and it's really nice because
the bath side I had before wasn't, you couldn't get any more, so I got a bit of a sure to
one.
I was a bit worried that everything I read, I've watched loads of YouTube videos about
it here, that it came with some really cheap legs, so what I did was that some of the baths
you get where you can buy like a pop of feet for them, but this one has just had plastic
ones.
I got some CT1 glue, which is a really strong flexible seeding and glue, and I glued them
on the bottom, and they kind of stuck, but what I then did, I basically built a wooden
frame underneath the bath to keep it in, and I was a bit worried because when you first
had kind of moved it, so what was one of the YouTube guys I was watching, so that if
you put the CT1 glue all the way between the bath and the wall and you press it, as
I did, I'd hold it for 10 minutes, and then the next morning, yep, it was solid, so to
make sure that when you put a bath in, that you make sure that it's level because you
don't want the water not being able to exit.
Next thing is, at once I've done that, I then put in, while I wasn't tiling, I hate tiling,
I hate painting, but my dad gave me onto a seeding called Easy Panels, you can get some
really expensive ones, but I found these nice kind of reasonable price ones, they were
about 80 pounds, I think, per sheet, they're 10 mil fix, I have three of them, and what
they are is that you, they are like 2.4 meters tall, and what you do is that you can
push them on the wall, you get some really good seeding with it, and the glue which you
buy it, and you literally just cut them to the shape, and then you push them on the wall,
and then between them you put some seeding in it, so it seals it between the units, and
then the end of them you have end caps, and I think it looks really good, I'm really
glad that I didn't have to do any tiling, they were quick, one of the one knowingly, one
of the things I had to do was the last put in, there's like a window and a ledge and
the bath, so it was really hard to kind of work out, so what I did was I got, luckily
it came with a piece of cardboard that big, so what I then did was then, I got these
cardboard, cut the cardboard at the right size so that I had that to template to put it
on the, I then transferred that onto the car, onto the PBC panels, and then I just cut
around it in it perfectly, okay, and the next thing I did was replace the actual toilet,
mine was kind of like one where it was plumbed into where the waste goes into the floor,
it was on the left hand bend, so what I did was I found a toilet, which was, I measured,
because I don't know where the waste goes, I don't know how it would fit in it, so I basically
found a toilet, I measured how the toilet was away from the wall, and where it goes into
the waste, and then I just basically just looked around and found what I found, and found
what was good, it was called a box in the box, and it had everything pretty done, so
you had the basin, and you had the unit on the top where the water goes into, I then
that was all done before you just had to re-tighten it up, to do, to write down all the bits
inside of the thing, so you don't have to do all the fuss or anything else, all done
before you pre-use or the box is good, I then, yeah, is the, to take the old, the toilet
out, you had to empty the bowl, so I had to have a wet back, and I could have basically
got cut, first of all, there's a couple of the water out, and then you had to dry back
to suck the water out of it, and then I just took the toilet off, then put the new toilet
in and out, so you had to fit in the same place, which is really good, yeah, once you've
done all the seining and stuff, I always make sure that you always make sure that when
you're doing, plumbing is that you make sure that you run it absolutely, then there's
no water coming out to join, in case you haven't tightened it up, so you want to do that
before you leave, so don't do it, don't need to DIY, and then go out, and yeah, it could
be issues, gladness you were, when I was taking the bath out, when I was taking the tiles
off the wall, it dented the old bath, and I had to get some water out to clean something,
and the bath had got full in the bath, because the whole of the bath went through the water,
and then through the ceiling, there was no much damage, but no, to be careful, always think
after any pipework or anything, make sure that I always keep the side of the thing, make
sure like three or four weeks, to make sure that there's no leaks or anything, yeah,
the last thing I'm going to do is a really good tip, is that I hate ceiling, so when you
don't do anything, you get a ceiling round the bath, round the sink, it's really hard
to get, they always recommend I always do gather, always spend a bit more money, don't get
the cheapest one, bath, ceiling, and you can get some water, and so water, which you
can do to clear up when you go to the, you can actually buy these ceiling tiles now, normally
just if you throw your own finger to do it, but they're also messy now, you get a ceiling
tile, which is curved, which comes in like little square, like a side of a credit card,
it's got, on it, it's got different four different sides on it, sides on the side, and
you get all you do to just put a layer of ceiling around the bath, round the sink, and then
you do just pull this, tool around it at night, makes a nice clean finish on the ceiling
tile, yeah, so anyone got any question or anything, yeah, hit me up, but yeah, have a go,
I've never done a replace a bathroom before, I've done sort of placing taps and things,
but yeah, it just took a long time because we're only having one bathroom, so I'm going
to do little bits every weekend, anyway, remember, we are short episodes, so it will be
good to get some more, in, so, see you on the next one, bye for now.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, at Hacker Public Radio, does work, today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
podcast, and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is, hosting
for HBR has been kindly provided by www.monsthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
