Episode: 4162
Title: HPR4162: HPR music project - Walking tune from Äppelbo
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4162/hpr4162.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 20:34:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio, episode 4162 for Tuesday, the 16th of July 2024.
Today's show is entitled, H.P.R. Music Project Walking Tune from Pelbow.
It is hosted by Fred Black and is about 17 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Fred plays and teaches out Gingled Fernpelbow on their Nickel Harpa.
Oh hi there.
I guess it's time to record another show because my last one was a few months ago to be precise almost five months ago.
So I guess it's time for another show.
And what would what's better than another one of the music series that I try to start?
Today I thought I could teach out a one of the most well-known tunes in Swedish folk music,
Epilbow Gonglott.
So it's a Gonglott walking tune from a place called Epilbow, which I think it was up in Dalana.
Of course this is the version how I play it.
There are tons and tons of different ways to play it.
And in the B part you can make, you can have a lot of different.
Just variations and improvisations as long as you're not playing in a group at that point because then it could be bad.
But well, here is the tune for once.
And I don't have a second voice for this one, so there won't be a very cheaply edited but still a solid good version at the end.
And so this is like what it sounds like.
Well, at the last part I threw in one small little variation that's pretty easy to just throw in there.
The people who know, I think was Scottish or Irish folk music, no wait, it was Scottish.
I know that there's a tune called Flowers of Edinburgh.
And yes, the B part sound pretty similar.
And well, you can actually just transfer from one song to the other, but I think there's some kind of problem with...
I don't know, something probably.
But last you start with a D.
So now comes the teaching part.
So now this little part.
Which is D-G-D-G-A-D-D.
So D-G-D-G-B-D.
And then you continue with...
So B-C-D-D-C-B-C-B-D.
Anyways, you continue with B-C-D-D-D-D-D-E-C-C-D-B-A.
A, or you can actually throw in a little drill of sorts, where you just throw in a fast
little D in the middle. So we've come to...
Um, continue with a B, C, C, D, E, D, C, B, A, G, D, E, D, E, D, E, D, E, D,
B, A, G, and, uh, and the A part with F sharp G, A, B, A, F sharp,
A, F, F sharp, D, F sharp, G, G, G, so, and total it is...
Well, I threw in that little variation drill or whatever you forgot the word, but yeah,
you loop that twice and then you've... and that's your whole A part. So...
And now onto the B part, which starts off with a little...
Start with a little upbeat, and I think it's an upbeat, but it's pretty important still.
Um, and consisting of a B, D, and then you jump up to a G. Yeah, a G.
And the B part sounds like this.
And then, well, either that's your complete end or you can restart with the A part until...
And then the B part until you're done, but anyways, here's the B part.
So B, D, G, G, G, F sharp, E, F sharp, F sharp, G, F sharp, E, E, G, F sharp,
G, now wait, that's E.
D C sharp D C B C C B C B A G A B C B A G F B C B A G F B C B A G F B C B A G F
A G F sharp G A B A F sharp D E F sharp G G G. I know that that was probably it quite a lot at the same time
but yeah there it's pretty hard just a hard getting this tune to like small
manageable bits but it's still quite easy so
oh wait there I went into the A part again but that's a good example of how you can
how you can go over there it's just a matter of restarting
I don't really know what and what more to say except again a pretty slow version so you can play along
and yeah I know that I might have forgotten a note here and there while teaching out the tune
sorry for that but it's still a quite long one so yeah sorry in the case that I forgot
something but well I hope you enjoyed this little fast little episode which I just threw
in now but like it's summer we need we need the shows so if you have something to talk about
more or less regardless of what you want to talk about maybe you have a tune you want to teach
I would be glad to learn some music from around the world grab grab grab a microphone maybe
your instrument and go on recording a show so see ya next time
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work
today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
broadcast you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for HBR has
been kindly provided by an honesthost.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on the
Sadois status today's show is released on their creative comments attribution 4.0 international
