Episode: 4436
Title: HPR4436: HPR Community News for July 2025
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr4436/hpr4436.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-26 00:43:21

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 4,436 for Monday 4 August 2025.
Today's show is entitled HBR Community News for July 2025.
It is part of a series HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 36 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is…
HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in July 2025.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Joining me tonight ish, as other things on this hand is Scottie.
Scottie can say hello and then if you don't appear again, we'll know what happened.
Hello.
And can you welcome the new host for this month just before you go?
And it's a trick question because there are no new hosts this month.
How is that possible, Scottie?
How?
Why do they do this to me?
Things like holidays, vacation time, why?
Is HBR not important?
Forget to sit on the tea and biscuits.
That's it.
That's it.
This folks is HBR.
We are a community podcast focusing on tech.
We're a tech community podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday
and we've been doing it for nine on 20 years coming up this September.
We will be 20 years old only one more year to waste and then we can walk into a bar.
And this is the community news show where we talk about all the happenings
that's been going on in and around the community.
What we won't be talking about is there's been a discussion on the mailing list
one of the discussions we're releasing as a separate show
because it would just make this episode far too long.
So what we do is we gather once a month.
This is open to anybody.
Anybody can join the show and it's they recorded on the Friday
before the first Monday of the month, which is a lot more complicated than it probably needs to be.
And the first thing that we do is we go through all the shows for the previous month
and the first one was episode 41412 by Antoine.
And this was I think the first three minutes trailer followed by the full show.
So originally he has done a show about it where he released the trailer I think.
Then this is the full show itself and then I saw he posted something into the reserve queue
which I haven't gone through yet as well related to this.
And he's also reported a show about his process of recording this.
So there's been three comments to this episode.
And the first one was from Kevin O'Brien.
He says, love the show.
I'm a student of World War II history and I'm familiar with many of the events
this story is based on.
I really liked it to which Antoine replied, glad with interest.
I'm happy you liked it and I'm curiously different to see how someone that studies history
nowadays unless when it is the main area for someone.
Thank you and have a nice day.
Kevin replies saying, studying history.
I didn't do history professionally and in any case I'm retired.
But it was my first degree and still a major interest.
I read books in history, listen to history podcasts,
including one on World War II by Ray Harris.
So the following day we had an episode from Gemlog which was I think from the reserve queue
if I'm not mistaken, let me just check that.
Yep, from the reserve queue.
So what traditionally happens in the Northern Hemisphere during the summer is we get a little
in shows. So we're burning, burning through shows from the reserve queue.
Six shows have been pulled in from the reserve queue.
And just so you know what that is.
When you upload a show to HPR, if you're a new host, just pick the first slot.
No problem.
And if you want, first new hosts always should pick the first slot.
Just and introduce yourself.
If you're putting, if you're coming back and you have say two shows and you don't know what to do
with them, say put one in 14 days from now and then put the next one into the reserve slot.
Stuff that's not interviews, stuff that's not time related or whatever.
So stuff very much like this custom KDE shortcuts are very useful.
And in this show Gemlog explain to us how to set up shortcuts in KDE.
And if you don't use these, they're very, very useful.
I use LXQT myself and the same philosophy has moved over there.
LXQT is a light version of inspired by KDE, but very light version of it.
So I use them all the time.
You know, something like you copy a URL and you just control all it.
Control all the time and it opens a URL.
Control windows C and you can, it takes a screenshot of the desk.
You can copy something and it'll figure out if it's a URL or it'll do text.
It'll translate it from the image to text and based on what it finds in the text,
it'll either open up an image editor or go to a web browser or run something else.
So that's super, super useful.
Little shortcuts like that.
No comment on that episode, which is another thing you'll notice during the summer season
that there's less people around.
But what ends up happening is that people get back from vacation and then they'll be listening
to these shows again. So not not a worry, not a worry there.
So the next day we had Belroy Tech Kit, where KDE shares his thoughts on the Belroy
Travel Kit. Sorry.
Well, he says Tech Kit and then he refers to it as the Travel Kit.
So I didn't know what this was actually.
He gave a good description in the notes.
So I went and had a look.
It is basically a pouch to carry your with a elastic straps and such to carry your stuff.
And what I found most interesting about this show was all the doodles that he has in it.
So I imagine if we give out free one of these to every person listening to HPR,
they would all have different selection of must-have items in their kit.
So it's very interesting to hear that.
If you want to do a show on what you would put into your kit,
then please do that and send it into HPR.
That would be great.
The following day we had a episode by myself about my Sony WH-CH700N,
which had a 2DP stops working in Fedora.
And this was very much a tick troubling issue that had been trouble shooting for ages.
And I found the most obvious of fixes in a one-line forum post by Hank
and Hank, if by any chance you are listening to this over there in the Fedora forums,
thank you so much for putting that in it.
Ding the bell and when we look at the most obvious thing that was going on.
So these are great headphones, by the way.
Absolutely, I would recommend them except you get a great for repair.
You can open up the used standard screws, I've replaced batteries,
I've replaced the cups on them.
I've had leads and stuff where the fell down,
where kids fell down the flight of stairs in the train station.
And then they didn't work, they'd bring them home, sold their back on the speakers,
and they work perfectly.
Great little, great headsets.
So we're expensive at the time, but well, well worth it.
The following day we had the community news and there were two comments on that episode.
The first one was by Ken Fallon, which was the policy check.
And it was the link to, you should not be moderated.
We're welcoming, etc., etc., community news summaries about
for normal shows, we expect host to mark the shows as sensitive in nature,
including apparent advisory, nothing offenses.
During last month's community news, I felt that so yeah,
so it's about that episode.
People more or less agreed with that, so not a lot of controversy.
And that one, Torrance, as thanks for the tips for growing run in SQLDB.
I'd like to let it go as I find it a little bit too convoluted.
I'd love to see a feature on HPR to easily find all past comments by folks.
This can be done on general internet forums, etc.
Yeah, it can be, but what HPR is, it's not a general internet forum.
So what we are is a podcast and the comments are associated with that podcast
and should travel around with that podcast.
So we have a different approach.
Here in HPR, it is a different sort of the normal rules don't apply.
Whether the shoulder knot would make a good show and send them in,
and we will, we will all enjoy your episode.
The next day we had a show from Dave Morris.
Writing a function or script to find a given file, and this one had several
comments, naturally excellent notes there, as ever, Dave.
And this was the one that I had never come across.
They print a percent p option per cent app at all using find.
I'd never use that.
And I find this, I think I'm fairly, fairly good at using the find command,
but the print app one I'd never thought to use and it will be another
addition to my arsenal.
As ever, you know, Dave puts in your place.
Just calmly comes out there and goes, boof, and by the way,
but there are four comments to that show.
First one was Archer 72 saying it's in my memory.
Hi Dave. Sorry, I didn't say it like that at all.
Dave, thanks for the show.
This is one that I have to refer to at a later date.
For now, I'm putting in my memory bank to refer back to Archer 72.
Yes, Archer 72.
And I will put in my memory bank for you to remind me which show it was.
Tojet says, an alternative method, I use a similar pattern to find the newest and oldest.
So where the pattern is any valid file in pattern and path if needed.
And then pattern equals a asterisk.text for text in the current directory or pattern equals
do one slash asterisk.sh for all the sh files in deer one.
Or for example, pattern equals four such deer two for four such and then open
square brackets a dash j close square bracket asterisk for files beginning with lower case a
two j in directory two find the newest file.
And then he puts us basically I'm not going to go through these but various different things
that you can do. I use in the direct command dash one tq pattern and then pipes its head
to get the first one you file where he replaces.
Actually, you know what? Tojet that's a show there.
Why would I be explaining this what you're doing when you can do it?
That's a show right there. Thank you. Next comment Dave Morris.
Thanks Archer 72. I hope you find the ideas in this script useful in future.
At least to trigger future ideas of your own.
And Dave says to Tojet, thanks. I like the use of deer as an alternative to find.
And it's a show right there by the way, can't say.
I have to use find in the part for its alternative pattern matching limited as it is.
And I probably wouldn't stuck in my find rut as a consequence.
I shall resolve to use deer more often.
I probably I would probably have added said call in the pipeline to return the newest name
and remove the double quotes, but that's just me.
So I am not familiar with the direct command and would love a show on it.
And the following day is my desktop applications by Kibby.
And again, one from the reserve queue.
And this is the type of thing that you can pop into the reserve queue.
It's not going to. It's not going to go too old.
The reserve queue life span is about a year.
So you shows.
Well, probably go in there and be out within a year.
So in this.
Kibby goes through some of his applications.
Not the standard ones that are already installed,
but these are the list of ones that you would install.
And you must have applications that are probably in your repels,
like pinky inkscape and gimp and telegram and calibrary, etc.
And some good ones in there that I'd never heard of.
So have a check out the show.
Very good.
And yet again, another one from the reserve queue,
which is why we have two hoku shows in short succession.
And Oga basically says, well,
you know, over the years, I listen to a lot of YouTube
and sometimes I listen to some stuff and sometimes I,
sorry, listen and watch, obviously.
And my taste changed.
So in the preceding years since the last time he did this,
he updated us on what he's listening to now.
I'm watching now.
So several things, if you're familiar with,
if you're familiar with Huka,
several things come up.
So Paul McCartney music, for example,
Dr. Who, science and history and Irish music,
or traditional Irish music,
at least come up there.
No surprises really.
And some good overlap.
And some channels where I'm very reluctant to go to,
to be honest, because I'll be sucked down the rabbit hole.
But great, great episode there.
Huka, thank you very much.
And he's already had three of these
been taken from the reserve queue.
So yeah, that.
Archers 72 says, hi,
thanks for this episode.
I enjoyed the stories you had about each channel.
Archers 72.
Great one.
Yes, and if you folks want to do that,
pop them into the reserve queue, that would be great.
And remember, people stop sending in shows
and the reserve queue runs empty.
All we're going to do is take all the other shows
that are already posted, play them one after the other,
and then we're going to shut down HPR as a project,
archive it, and say goodbye.
And thank you for the fish.
That's not a joke.
That is the plan.
There's no point in maintaining something for the want of us.
So if you're into what we're doing,
free Libra content released on the Creative Commons licenses,
done by people for the people available on RSS and any platform,
and then one show a year is all it takes.
So the following day, we had a hookah
who had already scheduled the show once in advance,
part of the science fiction and fantasy series,
the first doctor, part two.
And this is absolutely excellent.
It gives me lots of food for thought,
and my son and I were thinking of going back
and trying to root out a lot of the old doctor who episodes
and see if it could catch us all up.
So thanks, Kebi, hookah for that.
So the next day, we had an interesting show from Lee,
who's talking to Elizabeth, one of our other hosts,
about her role as a content moderator for a platform and the internet.
And Kevin O'Brien says,
nice discussion, I really enjoyed the discussion here.
It's an interesting topic, very relevant to HPR
and very instant indicators.
Yeah, and I personally found this super interesting
from a from a HPR janitor point of view as well.
So great show, glad she was able to add that,
and thanks very much Lee for posting the show first.
Has you made part two in depth?
And this was from Oxo, who we had some questions
about his previous episode about what it is.
And he went into more depth about why you would do it.
And it's about taking a building up a distribution
using a selection of scripts for his arch X64 system.
So you run it, you've got the zero in it,
the base can't post apps.
And then you have like a custom distribution.
Kind of similar to what I've done in the past
with you take a distro and your own Ansible,
installing all the bits and bobs on top of that.
But a lot more, this is a lot more in details
and flexible, so create a little system there.
So again, from the reserve queue,
we had a hookah with even more subscriptions back to space,
this year behind the sofa.
So again, excellent selection.
Archer 72 says agrees, easy listening.
Thank you for the show.
It's interesting to hear the stories behind each channel,
also very pleasant to listen to.
Couldn't agree more, could not agree more.
So the next episode was how I use NewsBoke,
NewsBolt for podcast and Reddit,
putting together for podcast listening.
So he has some, he has got a config and config NewsBolt.
Sorry, dot, hundredly, dot,
vague NewsBolt and URLs.
And that's included here in the show.
And then how you would use it and set it up.
And basically they, the steps involved.
Well, I don't use NewsBoke myself,
but we've had a lot of, it's,
it's looks like an excellent session there.
It's a CLI terminal application.
So Antoine says, thank you.
Very pleasant listening and learning.
Thank you.
I also came to know of stior.org.
Archer 72 replies saying,
hi, Antoine, thanks.
I'm happy that this podcast was good to listen to.
And thanks for the link.
Like Ken says, it's the currency of thanks.
It's the currency which we, which we pay the hosts.
He also says, open a browser quick tip.
Change open in browser setting in NewsBolt config token Firefox
by using the go to the hash browser link handler.
And the change that line to browser space,
quote, Firefox space, percent, low case, you quote.
And Antoine replies, ah, that's what I understood.
I was listening last night on the bed.
And then I was talking about lemme.stf.org.
I wanted to know that instance of lemme.
I thought I listened stior instead.
And then I went to the website that was no lemme,
but there was a problem there once.
Came to know it grateful to you for having presented here.
And the next episode we had introduction to Linux matters.
Long overdue, we share a taster of another excellent creative
comments podcast.
And Torren says, not as good as the Ubuntu podcast.
I can love the podcast 2028-202121.
I find that Linux masters is nowhere near as good.
Torren says, love the music for Linux masters.
Love the theme tune.
It reminds me so much of the 1980s.
So next episode, my command line applications.
So this is, this is another one from the reserve queue.
And Kevin does the same thing as he has done before.
And gives us some not installed by default applications
that he uses on his default install.
MPG123, FFNPEG, mock, links, mut, neo-fetch, and wechat.
And XOP says interesting podcast.
Thank you.
I heard you use neo-fetch.
I did too, but found out recently that it's no longer maintained.
Instead, I switched to fast fetch, which is on GitHub.
And he has configuration for the basic theme, which
is on CodeBurg at OXO.
So this is from OXO, not OXP, so type of there.
Kevin says, thanks, OXO.
Thanks for the comment.
I've never heard of fast fetch, but we'll have a look
when I get home.
Thank you for sharing.
An Archer 72 says, links browser.
I sometimes use a link browser for focusing on Merck.
It has been helpful in the options menu to select the I keys
and then save options to disk.
There's also an option for Emax keys, if needed,
by Archer.
Thanks to Archer 72.
And I was using e-links today, actually,
to check the new HPR website design.
That role is working on.
So if you're interested in following that,
go over to the repo.anonsthost.net,
forward slash HPR, and you'll see all the fun action
we're having over there.
And another one from the reserve queue.
Bit sore this month.
Hosted by Moss Bliss.
And it's about comparing two wireless keyboards.
Great idea here.
The Luchitek R400r, and the RIK 22.
And what I found interesting was
that how people use keyboards differently,
and the specific needs that you have.
So when I go out and pick a keyboard,
I'm looking for what I think is perfectly obvious thing,
but it wouldn't be necessarily obvious to everybody else.
And similarly, once you go wireless,
where are you going to use that?
Are you using it from to the TV, et cetera?
So it's a great topic for shows here.
And in what's becoming a theme this month,
another one from the reserve queue.
We have Fix and AVI indexes.
How to fix missing or damaged AVI indexes.
And it's pretty much a simple one-liner.
FFNPEG, dashi for the input file, dashc for copy,
and then the name of the output file and the format.
And it'll go through the files, reindex them, and clean them up.
I have to admit having done this since Kevin posted this
for some of my YouTube downloads,
which go a little bit monkey sometimes.
So a great little tip there.
Thanks, Huka for that.
Now, this was an interesting show, the next one,
which was handcrafted and bartering discussion with Lisbeth.
And when I was about using Etsy and stuff,
what I found was it was an interesting approach
that's why would somebody, the whole aspect of why somebody
does stuff for free or produces goods.
Now, when you're producing something physical,
I can understand the need to get rewarded for your time.
But then I had to have a good think about it.
We're all here in HPR.
We're all devoting our time, especially this month.
An ordained amount of time has been spent on HPR.
So, by a lot of people.
So, yeah.
What is our motivation for doing that?
Why?
Why are we doing it?
Should is the only motivator money?
Thoughts and comments here on HPR episode 4429,
or better yet, listen to the show
and record your own response show.
That would be fantastic.
Ah, okay.
Then comes in with playing civilizations five, part one.
So, this is a look at the new game mechanic
in civilization five.
And there will be more of these.
So, I'll hold off on discussing this
until somebody next month who has actually played games,
kind of, kind of comment more.
Kevin is off on his vacation time.
And I hope he's having a great time
not thinking about us.
And then we had an operator with thermos refill channel
thermosol refill channel challenges.
And as with quite a lot of things coming from operator,
it takes me a while to figure out what the hell he's on about
because I think there's a lot of assumptions
that people that stuff that's very common in the US
is not so common here.
So, it turns out it's a musculoskeletal repellent efficiency.
So, this was a good show.
I was looking at the notes, go, what is he doing?
Is he building a bomb?
Is he, you see, who knows what he's up to?
But it's, it was doing refills, very good episode.
But remember, safety, don't do it.
He's a trained professional, et cetera, et cetera.
The slammer's all round.
And again, and again, from the reserve queue
to subscriptions by OK.
And then from the reserve queue again, we had operator.
We had just another show by operator.
Nerd response to you random podcasts.
And this was about a KVM set up that was mentioned.
And instead of using KVM's,
operator uses USB switches.
And it's also a really interesting approach.
So, if you're, if he sounds like you've got
a really complicated setup going on,
bodies also got gaming machines
and all sorts going on.
So, have a listen to that.
It's an interesting alternative approach
to what is proving to be a common enough problem here
on the network.
And the last show for the year, by the year I mean the month,
are just 70 do give us a follow up to his newsboard show.
And he talks about the URL list items
that he has in his newsboard config.
So, that was it for all the comments
and all the shows that have been posted so far.
There were two previous, two comments on previous shows
from the previous that were released earlier
on people made a comment.
So, back in the 1st of January, 2024,
Celeste had a show called testing the language
and matrix left a comment.
And that was review of V.
Came across this and thought it was a good review,
getting more into programming and find the language V fun to use.
Found a more comfortable others,
starting some podcasts with it.
And thanks for the podcast.
There you go folks.
One person affected by the episode,
it was worth doing, surely.
Then the next one on a show that the logbook date
called the Pakchilli project.
And Paul Jay says it was a great interview.
This was back on the 30th of June,
which was the previous month.
And Paul Jay said great interview.
It's a great application,
but I never knew the background to its development.
Thanks for catching up with Nick
and making this show very interesting.
Source code project Don Wright, exclamation mark.
So then we have the comments from this month
that we've already done.
And then we're moving on to the middle.
So on the community news summaries.
So I submitted, I submitted a post-hial
for a normal show we expect a host to mark shows
that are expensive in nature to include a parental advisory
as described in HPR 2210.
For example, see human, sister to human reproduction,
HPR 30109 as an example.
Nothing offensive is in the notes or in the summaries,
but the show includes sufficient warnings
to give parents guardians and people
likely to be triggered by the topic time to turn it off.
During last month's community news recording,
I felt the word, some of the words were not appropriate
for reading out on the community news.
So I, and I've just skipped over them again.
So I limited my comments to giving the spirit
of the fate of male chicks in the egg industry as horrific.
Commenters objected and feels that I should have read out
the comment.
Therefore, I'm putting the decision to the community.
Does the policy allow for the janitors to skip sections
of the comments while reading the community news
and the policy reads, the audio and view show
will not be monitored, dot, dot, dot.
We do not fit editor moderation center
and evaluate the audio use of it.
We trust you to do that.
Please don't, so that only relates to the audio upload,
the rest of the messages are managed by the HBR community
and may be edited.
In my view is that the community news is a welcoming show
where new hosts come to get feedback on their episode
and for many who use it to decide which shows to download.
The spirit of the comment was conveyed
and reading a formulation would require rapidly
an episode in a parental advisory,
reducing its download appeal and as such,
the community as a whole would suffer.
Wendy Gauss says, I think it's perfectly
reasonable for the janitors to admit sections of the comments
that they may be concerned are not suitable
for the community news audience.
The original comment is still available on the website
and the interest of parties can see it there.
Since the definition of what is required
for parental advisory is relative,
I'm more than happy to leave it to the question
of the janitor reading the comment
as long as they mention what they're making an emission.
If the commenter is concerned about listening listeners
are not getting their full message,
then they're more than welcome to record their comments
in full and submitted as a next episode.
Audio of the show is not, this is by Jim Leonard.
Audio of the show was not moderated.
HBR does not have any such guidelines or rules
and summaries of shows, its contents or its reception,
moderating the gamma's unity show,
does not break my rule and my humble opinion.
Completely at the janitor's discretion
whether or not I feel as appropriate
or not would have been my choice.
It was not against the rules of policy,
no harm has been done.
Kevin Durant says,
seems to me like this is the case
where it's a good solution.
I tend to agree with Jim Leonard
that there is no state rule that has been broken,
but I also see that the commenter wanted to make a point.
And then what happens, my general rule is
that if you have strong agreement arguments make record
a show, comments are not intended to be a social flux
but shows of their nature are.
And I would mark that shows explicit
and leave it at that.
I don't agree with that.
I think it should be wrapped up in a warning
about the content, then do your show.
Does the policy allow for generous to skip contents
that the community can use?
My answer would be yes, says Henrik.
And Carl D says in somebody says,
I agree with all that has been said
to additional thoughts.
Community news are providing a service community
and I think it's ultimately up to them how to do that.
I think the existing show format is valuable
for consistent listening experience,
needs of onboarding new hosts,
but it shouldn't be treated as a computer program
that the hosts are meant to follow
in a way to guarantee exploitability.
Letting a single commenter calls the entire show
to need content warning is unfair to all other commenters
and hosts who contributed for a month
and wouldn't want their reach limited.
I think the approach taken in the example shared,
summarise the content rather than read them for Basem,
balances both concerns perfectly.
And as I'm thinking that,
I think I skipped one comment as well.
Let me go back because I had wanted to say something about it,
but I'll come to it now.
I'll go back and get it.
Evening all, my view at this from Paul Jewel,
my view at the approach taken to the community
news was okay, the region contents are available.
Should anybody wish to follow them?
As already stated, the commenter can make a show
if they wish to elaborate.
I firmly believe the presenters of the community news
have a right to choose whether to repeat a comment
for Basem, summarise them as long as they're clear
and must be summarised.
No one has the right to put words in the presenter's mouth
without the presenter's having the right to refuse
to say that, thank you.
What else, what else, what else?
Oh yeah, mailing list discussions.
So that was that.
Then, yeah, great.
We had our first copyright violation
where real podcasters now deal with it,
but there are some reasons.
A my ability to deal with it
has actually not opened another kind of worms.
So to that, there were two comments.
Whoa, HPRO finally arrives, this cloud.
And Christopher Zimmerman says,
it only took them 16 years to find it.
It's an amazing, but modern AI,
nevermind technology can do.
Well, as it happens,
when I went to object to that saying
that I was going to Google edit the show or whatever,
we basically were faced with two options.
One was we either had to have rights for the music
or two the show got banned.
So the show was banned now on Spotify.
That episode is no longer there.
But then when I was reading out
the, as we were posting the rejecting a show
on grounds that it's using HPRO to push a product or view,
and there's an episode I'm not reading it out here.
And it's not because I don't want to read it out yet.
It's because I'm already getting horse
doing the show by myself.
So we will be having it.
Let me just check today.
It will be coming out on this Thursday.
So in four days time, two days after you listen to this.
So HPRO 4, 4, 3, 9 on Thursday, the seventh.
All those basically have eSpeak read all the comments in there.
But if you want this live or whatever,
you can always join the mail list and have your say
in a respectful manner.
And I was talking about something there.
Yeah, editing the show though.
I can't edit the show because we don't edit that
blah, blah, blah before we listen to them.
So I would now need to contact the host
and ask their permission to edit it.
And if I don't get permission or they're gone
or the email doesn't work,
then we're in a bit of a stew again.
That's what we do.
Okay, I guess we can take it down.
But yeah, can we edit the shows?
Wow, this month has been policy decisions all the way.
And you know what?
I dislike that.
I just like upload shows.
Just upload boring shows, boring shows.
That would be absolutely awesome.
Not that your shows are boring,
but just upload the shows and it boring for me to post them.
I just post them and they go out shows coming in.
They go out.
I don't want to be involved.
Yeah, don't get me involved.
That should be your goal.
Alrighty.
We're short of shows, folks.
If you're posting shows now because there are a few people
who are posted shows in comments to the mail storm
that's just happened.
So you'll have a look at that.
But if you're new host, pick the first slot.
If you're an older host, try picking the first available,
you know, two weeks out, three weeks out.
Pick the Fridays, the third, zero Friday.
Leave some slots there for new hosts to come in.
And other than that, I have not a lot else to say.
What am I missing?
Nothing.
Children tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released
on their creative commons, attribution 4.0 international license.
